BETWEOS / MCCONNELL / 














B  E  T  W  E  O  S






By






Ken McConnell


________________














“Love is like war: easy to begin but very hard to stop.”


H. L. Mencken
________________
PART ONE
________________










Chapter 1


A C H E R O N






A single ear of blackened flint corn was all that Gaven could pilfer before heading home to the surface. The old, rusted elevators pulled him up with great effort and with little reliability. The lifts all stopped ten stories from the surface. Everything beyond that had rusted to the point of being unusable. He trudged up concrete stairwells the rest of the way. The walk gave him time to change out of his maintenance uniform and into the weatherproof clothes that would protect him from the poisonous air of Acheron.
Before stepping out into the dim, permanently overcast gray skies he picked up a trooper rifle hidden between rusted pipes. The wind howled outside and he could hear the driving rain through the thin metal walls of the alcove. He attached his breather mask and opened the heavy metal door. Home again.
Gaven held the flat trooper rifle close to his torso as he ran into the stiff wind. If he let the heavy weapon fall loose to his side, the gusts would rip it out of his hands, or clobber him senseless with it. The driving rain pushed against his thin form allowing him to lean into its powerful grasp as he ran. His rain slicker’s gray and black splotches were carefully crafted to fool the eye, both human and electronic.
He was sure that he was getting closer to the trench, despite being blinded by the wind. The cool air cut into his squinting eyes, constantly reminding him that he forgot to bring his goggles. Were it not for the respirator mask that he wore he would have found it equally difficult to breath in the toxic atmosphere of Acheron.
Another patch of thick gray fog whipped past, obscuring the trench. Gaven felt the ground give out from under his feet and rolled with the fall against the far wall of the metal pit. Wasting no time, he quickly hoisted the rifle up onto the rim of the trench and squeezed off a few random shots into the distance.
The trooper rifle’s long, flat muzzle produced a brilliant flash of white light that made Gaven's dark eyes shine even as it temporarily blinded him. Several red bolts of energy seared the air above his head in reply from his pursuers. They would be at his position in a matter of seconds, their power-assisted suits of armor unimpeded by the high winds.
Gaven quickly ejected the power clip from the rifle and loaded it with a similarly shaped device that had a tiny numerical readout. A quick toggle on the arming switch and the rifle was converted into a bomb. He carefully wrapped a few layers of tape around the clip. Embedded in the tape were sharp flechettes that turned the bomb into a wicked frag. He positioned the rifle sitting up against the wall of the trench, as if a neglectful trooper had left it behind. Then he moved on down the rusted metal trench until he found a hidden entrance to an access ladder that led him deep below the surface.
The first Roundup Troop to reach the trench, ignored the rifle and continued down on, carefully reading his scanner screen. Soon, all evidence of the runner disappeared from the readouts. He turned around and returned to where his partner was standing, examining an older style rifle. The infra-red signature on the weapon was glowing like a hot iron rod. By the time he realized what was happening, it was too late to react.
The explosion pierced the weak armor at the second trooper’s neck, killing him instantly. The decapitated suit fell backwards, spewing a brown liquid - the result of blood and suit coolant mixing with the toxic atmosphere. The second trooper took most of the frag over the entire face and chest of his suit. He fell to the ground unconscious from the concussion of the blast. His suit automatically called in his status to the control ship, high in orbit of the planet. In seconds, more troopers were dispatched to the area near the industrial wastelands.
* * *
Inside the tunnels that ran just under the corrosive planetary surface lived the dredges of society. Holed up in dank rooms that leaked from the acid rain, were the scattered tribes of the Topsiders. Too poor to afford living further underground, they huddled just under the surface in the hollow remains of a bygone industrial age. Hunting for food on the surface or stealing it from the wealthier classes below, they somehow managed to exist, despite the Acheron government’s best efforts to exterminate them.
Gaven’s trench tribe hunted in packs on the surface, always on the alert for the ever-present Roundup Troops - military patrols that captured the healthiest of the poor so they could be trained to fight, off-planet in the Poor War. That’s what Gaven’s people called the battle for Betweos; a rogue gas giant that traveled between the two stars of their binary system. The Poor War was so named, because their government used the impoverished topsiders to fuel the war effort. The standard party line was that they were fighting to capture the spoils of their enemy’s planet. But few topsiders actually believed that they would ever be allowed to go to Elysia, were they to win the war. To avoid being eradicated as a social class, they fought their own guerrilla war, against the government’s Roundup Troops.
Ever since he was a small boy, Gaven had run with the pack and learned how to deceive and destroy the Roundup Troops. Over time, attrition had left him in command of the trench tribe. There were just six of them now, trying to feed and defend about a dozen children. Nobody lived much longer than twenty, before disease, hunger or death robbed the greedy Roundup Troops or Ruts as they were called.
Gaven was just eighteen, and he had been their leader for several years now or was it months? Time was difficult to keep track of on the surface. The thick gray clouds, obscured the red disc of Suth One, their red dwarf star. Only drastic temperature changes indicated whether it was day or night. At night the rain changed to snow and only the foolish went outside. Deep in the metal catacombs, the tribe huddled like rodents against the vents that release excess heat from the lower levels. During the day, they stayed below and suffered under the sweltering heat, to avoid being detected by the infra-red scans of the Ruts.
Gaven entered the base camp, removed his breather.  Kids gathered around him as he handed over the colored corn and a single piece of wilted fruit he had stole from his excursion to the lower levels. They tore into the food with unbridled hunger. Eating if it were their last meal.
A thin, wiry boy joined Gaven as he headed deeper into the den. His name was Slik, after the greasy brown hair that constantly fell in his eyes. Slik insisted that the name was given to him for his ability to slip out of any Rut trap. But nobody believed he was as good as his main boy, Gaven. Together they were two thirds of a trio that included a dwarf kid named Grim.
If Gaven was the brains and Slik was the bravado, then Grim was definitely the distempered one. The product of a young woman known to be touched in the head and a man too deformed to ever show his face, Grim seemed to inherit the worst of both of his parents. Standing just over a meter, he crawled on all fours most of the time, howling like a mad dog. He seemed to favor animalistic behavior and was limited to one syllable words that were next to impossible to decipher over his constant drooling.
Despite this, nobody seemed to think he was any different then the next guy. Besides, Grim had some kind of weird internal radar system that made him erupt into enthusiastic conniptions whenever the tribe was in danger of being rooted out by the Ruts. This earned him a degree of respect that few other than Gaven ever commanded.
As Gaven and Slik entered the dark antechamber, they found Grim working himself up into a mother of a fit over something. Gaven looked at Slik for an answer.
“Been like that, since ‘ya left,” Slik said.
Gaven sat down on the wet floor and gave Grim his full attention. After a few particularly disgusting drools, the urchin began to rock back and forth pointing up to the low ceiling. This was followed by a low, mournful growl.
Gaven watched closely, reading Grim’s actions like a hunter tracking his prey.
“More patrols coming. I took down two getting back.”
Slik looked at Grim again and then said, “Early this month.”
Gaven nodded as Grim finished howling and curled up at his feet like a puppy.
“We go now, “ Grim whispered.
* * *
The armory was run by a kid with a dirty face. Gunny, took his job as serious as any adult would, spending his days polishing barrels, building frags and putting together deadly weapons from broken and spare parts found in the miles of tunnels below the surface. Nobody messed with him much after they realized that he was as good a shot with a scatter gun as he was cleaning one.
Gaven always knew he could count on getting the best rifle or the most deadly rounds from Gunny and he rewarded him with plenty of food and the rarest commodity of all, sweets. Gunny might of worked like an adult, but he was paid in candy. Even in the subterranean greenhouses of the lower levels, candy was a luxurious commodity. Gaven didn’t care much for it himself, but he would go out of his way to get some, if it meant satisfying his loyal armorer.
Slik looked over the rack of weapons set aside for the tribe elders and chose the best of what was available. Gaven was given the newest and most lethal plasma rifle by Gunny himself. Grim preferred a tiny pistol with a chest holster that left his hands free to crawl around and into crevices with. Two other boys had joined them, each receiving all the ammo and secondary weapons they could carry.
The Trench Tribes were exclusively boy’s clubs. Girls were too highly prized as breeders to be allowed to risk their lives killing Ruts. So strict was the code that girls were never allowed to carry weapons or even enter the secluded armory. Which suited most of the male members just fine since few ever made it out of puberty and thus considered girls something to be avoided anyway.
There were rumored to be some tribes that allowed women who were no longer of childbearing age to be members, but they tended to become weaker and often died of bone weakening diseases. A few were incapable of bearing children and they tended to run the home guard, organizing a bug out or defending the nurseries with suicide deceptions.
One such young woman entered the armory and threw herself onto Gaven in a desperate plea to join them. Her name was Shen. She was barely sixteen and already well infected with an environmentally caused contaminant known only as The Scabs. Individuals not lucky to be born with inherited antibodies to area chemical pollutants, eventually contacted terrible sores that covered their exposed skin with painful, pus filled scabs. Nobody ever survived The Scabs and death was often the only reward for the unfortunate victims. Shen would never be allowed to mate, for fear of passing on the terrible genes.
In Shen's case, she had fallen in love with Gaven and until a short time ago, had showed no signs of having The Scabs. Now all she wanted from him was the chance to die with honor before The Scabs turned her into a pitifully ugly sight.
Unfortunately for her Gaven was a traditionalist. He had never developed any feelings for the girl and always considered her nothing more than a breeder. This breeder was crossing the line and that would not be tolerated.
Slik grabbed Shen’s tattered clothes from behind and quickly pulled her off of Gaven and against the armory wall. Gunny had his trusty equalizer wedged between her legs before she could recover from being pinned to the hard metal wall. The excited look in Slik’s eyes from behind his greasy hair, caused her to spit in his face. He had tried to rape her many times before and she had somehow managed to get free, but now she was trapped. Slik licked Shen’s saliva from his face, disgusting everyone in the process.
Gaven continued to load his pockets full of energy cells and explosive charges, trying to ignore her pleas to join them. “Gav, please, let me go with you. There’s nothing but pain and misery here for me,” Shen whined, her big brown eyes, bloodshot and swollen from the sickness.
Slik back slapped her face with his gloved hand. Causing her to shut up. “Let’s frag this worthless scab, boss, “ Slik taunted. “If she wants to die, let’s do her first.”
“No. Let her go,” Gaven said.
Slik turned his head to face Gaven, keeping pressure across Shen’s chest with his left forearm, “What?”
“I said, let her go. We can use her as a decoy.”
Slik turned back to Shen who smirked at him. He punched her in the gut and let her go. She doubled over in pain, sniffing back her tears.
Gaven tied a rope around her waist and told Gunny to secure to it enough explosives to take out six Ruts. Gunny was happy to oblige. Then Gaven left the room without waiting to see her reaction.
* * *
Slik pulled Shen with the rope around her waist. They didn’t bother with giving her a breather mask or even goggles and a slicker.
She did her best to keep up with them, but kept falling down on the smooth metal parts of the surface, and being dragged along by an impatient Slik. Gaven ducked into another metallic trench and then helped Slik pull Shen over the wall into the pit. She fell hard on her back into a foot of brown drainage water.
“Let’s leave her here, she’s slowing us down,” Slik yelled over the driving rain.
“No. This way.”
Gaven headed further down the trench, hurtling pipes and twisted, gray vines. Slik had to stop at each obstacle and help Shen over them. His patience with her was dwindling fast. Shen refused to give up. Her lungs struggled to breath the harsh air, and her eyes burned from the acid rain, but she kept on going. She was carrying half her weight in explosives, adding to her burden.
As she pulled herself over a wide pipe, Slik took out his frustration on her with a solid punch to her face. She never saw it coming and it sent her sliding back down the opposite side, where her limp body was quickly swallowed up in the mire.
Slik quickly caught up to Gaven as if nothing had happened. “Where is she,” Gaven asked.
“Forget about her, we gotta get out of here.”
Gaven turned around and went back the way they had come. Several explosions lit up the clouds and reverberated like thunder all around them. Slik swore and followed Gaven.
Shen had recovered from the blow and dragged herself onto a ledge above the rushing drain sludge. Gaven found her shaking uncontrollably on the ledge. For the first time, he actually felt sorry for her. After all, her face was kinda pretty before she contracted the scabs.
Gaven reached down around her tiny waist and lifted her up. Without a word, he pushed her over the pipe to Slik, who held back another punch as Gaven came over the pipe too quickly. Gaven took out a knife and cut off the rope leash that Slik had been dragging her with. He took Shen’s hand and continued on. Slik followed them, shaking his head.
The Ruts were closing in on them. Gaven didn’t need Grim to clue him in. He could feel it as clearly as he felt the cold rain pelting his body. The three of them wound their way past dead gray trees and through rusted out gullies of machinery with Gaven leading and Slik bringing up the rear.
* * *
Gunny pushed aside the crowd of curious onlookers and looked down at the main attraction. Grim was going through a particularly vivid conniption. Gunny knew Grim well enough to know that this was no ordinary fit. He started back for the armory, yelling for everyone to disperse and take whatever weapon they could carry. Before he could get back to the safety of his guns, several explosions ripped large holes in the leaking ceiling. Roundup troops fell into the tribe’s den, their weapons blasting everyone and everything in sight.
Gunny was one of the first kids to be pummeled by the heavily clad troopers. In seconds, the entire tribe was gathered into a pile in the center of the dimly lit room. The faceless troopers all came to attention as their leader strolled into the room through the tribe’s own secret entrance.
Polit Officer Hacker surveyed the pile of unconscious topsiders with coal black, soulless eyes. He seemed pleased with the raid. His short, spiked red hair matched the red piping on his battle armor.
Having already removed his helmet and breather, Hacker slowly walked around the room disgusted by the filth squalor. A third trooper entered the room and saluted Hacker, who nodded in return.
“Roundup complete, sir.”
“Outstanding, sergeant. Get these urchins topside and bring in the recorder's.”
The sergeant saluted again and waved at the others to help him scoop up the limp bodies and carry them to the surface. Hacker shook his head as he turned to leave. As he was pulling his helmet over his head, a single shot rang out. The metal helmet was blasted out of his hands before he was able to secure it to his head. Turning and drawing his sidearm in unison Hacker fired one shot into the darkness, dropping the assassin in his tracks.
Two troopers descended on Hacker, who waved them off. One of them picked up the lifeless form that had tried to kill Hacker. It was a small, filthy man-child, covered with his own saliva. Grim was dead. He had stayed behind to help guard the tribe and had died trying to rescue them by killing the Rut leader.
“Bring it up with us, I want a close up of it, “ Hacker said, waving off the offensive smell.
* * *
Gaven and Slik were positioned in one of their observation posts, surveying the landing craft barely visible through their makeshift night glasses. Shen was sitting behind them, curious enough to listen but not strong enough to climb up to their position. She was glad for the chance to catch her breath and be out of the acid rain.
“This is weird, something’s not right,” Gaven said.
“What’s ever right ‘bout roundup?”
“Not that. Something’s not right about way this is roundup’s going.” Gaven thought a moment, “It’s too easy.”
“For us or them,” Slik asked, as huge mechanical booms echoed through the landscape.
They could make out bright spot lights being turned on at the entrance of what used to be their hidden home. Several armored troopers were scattering what looked like bodies around the area. Gaven had the sickening feeling that he was watching his tribe being executed.
“Not good. Not good at all. This way.”
They slid back down to where Shen was and Gaven pulled her along behind him. She caught the concerned look in his eyes and it made her scared. They ducked into another ancient sewer pipe. Tattered signs were posted above the broken grate on the entrance. Propaganda from the Ruts, warning them not to evade roundup and to volunteer for service off world. It was their patriotic duty. The signs were old and weathered from the elements. Graffiti covered them like dust.
Two roundup troopers stopped at the sewer entrance, pointing their lights into the dark tunnel. The light fell on Gaven, illuminating him. The troopers saw another trooper standing in the tunnel, looking back at them, giving them a thumbs up.
“Never mind, he’s got ‘em.”
They turned off their lights and moved on. Gaven let out a heavy sigh and turned off his jamming device. It allowed him to send a false signal to the trooper’s scanners, when in reality, he was standing in plain view of them. Tricks like that were often possible due to the total reliance on sensor data by the trooper’s helmets. If they had had a regular visor, they would not have been so easily fooled.
The rouse had bought them a few extra seconds to try and evade the remaining patrols. Gaven and Slik lead Shen into a narrow passage that opened up into an open pit with high, wet walls. Pointing their weapons upward Gaven and Slik stuck to the walls, feeling for a way out. The way they had come was sealed off by an iris hatch that slid shut by itself.
Nothing but cloudy black sky above them. The rain had stopped.
“Where are we? What’s happening,” Slik asked.
“We’ve just been drafted,” Gaven replied.
Slik looked incredulously at Shen, they both turned to Gaven. The ground suddenly lifted out from under them, knocking them off their feet. Huge metal panels started covering up the sky as the top of the troop carrier closed for takeoff. They had been chased into a trap.
Slik screamed and desperately lunged for Shen. His wet fingers fumbled to find the detonator on her jacket as she helplessly fought him off. Gaven reached between them and shoved his friend away from Shen. Before Slik could recover and come back again, Gaven ripped the detonator out and tossed it aside. Slik screamed piteously as he pounded the metal floor of the troop carrier.  Daylight faded as the metal roof rumbled shut.
Gaven felt the weight of the universe closing in on him for the first time in his short, miserable life. He knew he was about to embark on a new journey, a journey that he never asked for and did everything in his power to avoid.
________________




Chapter 2




E L Y S I A


Corn, for as far as the eye could see in every direction. Yellow tassels rustled in the breeze, creating endless waves in the afternoon heat. Adrift on the sea of corn like a tiny boat, sat an abandoned ag-skiff. It hovered over the swaying tassels keeping itself level against the breeze. Beneath it, standing amongst the sturdy green stalks, was a young man dressed in loose wrapped khaki clothes and wearing a floppy hat.
Jared was a third generation farmer. He was doing as his father and his grandfather had done before him, tending to the vast fields of yellow and green. It was repetitive, boring work that never changed from the rhythmic cycle of the seasons. Year after year he planted the same three or four crops and tended to them until the harvest. Seldom was the monotony broken by periodic droughts or severe flooding.
Farming was a job for the old and content, Jared thought. He was young and in dire need of some adventure in his life. The weekly forays into the big cities on the outer rim just didn’t excite him anymore. He yearned for a little danger in his life. Not the everyday kinds of danger that farming offered, but the kind of obstacles that not just anyone could overcome. The kind of adrenaline pumping, living on the edge that only youth craved. He wanted to meet death face to face and stare it down. There was only one place a young person could find these thrills and that was in the army.
His parents fiercely objected to his enlisting. They were not exactly at the top of the social pyramid, but they were close enough to be able to get their son a college deferment from the draft. Their intentions were that Jared would go to school and graduate with a degree in Business, so that he could someday take over the family acreage. He wouldn’t be forced into fighting in the bug war and dying on some cold and lonely moon.
Jared's father was drafted and did his tour on the transfer ships. It was all a big adventure for him, being his first time away from his family and his first time in space. The patriotic thrill that came from going to war with his friends, soon gave way to the terror of combat and distrust of his government. He never saw direct combat on the moons, but he did see all the planet's finest youth being shipped like cattle off to the slaughtering fields of the Betweos moons. The experience had made a lasting impression on him and as a result, he vowed to never let his son be drafted.
Jared didn't heed his father's warnings about the horrors of the war. Instead, he listened with wide eyed envy to his grandfather's daring tales of adventures on the front lines, back when just getting to the rogue planet was enough to tax the technology of the day. Jared's grandfather Jarna, was a highly decorated hero of the New Republic. The leader of the famous raid on Betwi-Two, Jarna's squad was the first Elysia unit to capture a major Acheron stronghold on the lunar gray second moon. The victory eventually lead to the first permanent stronghold on the wandering gas planet's moons.
Steeped in the near mythic lore of his grandfather, Jared grew up yearning to wear the blue and white uniform of the Army. He wanted to drop with the infamous First Platoon, First Field Army, the most prestigious combat suit unit. His grandfather thought Jared had the potential to attain such a lofty goal. Unlike Jared's father who had been somewhat of a disappointment for Jarna. Jared had always known that he was destined to be a decorated soldier like his grandfather. It was in his blood. All he needed was the chance to prove it to everyone, especially his father.
When he was old enough to enlist, Jared secretly did so. He even managed to sneak away for six weeks for his ground based, basic training. He told his parents that he was attending a business prep school for the summer, exactly what they wanted to hear. He told his girlfriend Trille the truth, exactly what she didn’t want to hear.
Trille spent the summer crying into her pillow by night and playing the proud and supportive girlfriend by day. She hated that he had joined the Army without consulting her. Even though she always knew he would eventually enlist. The war and fighting were all he ever seemed to talk about. She just never could understand how some people, especially boys, seemed to crave making war. All she ever wanted out of life was to be married to the man she loved and raise a family. She never watched the war dispatches and rarely watched anything other than local newscasts.
Her friends had all tried to get her to go out with other boys, while Jared was at basic training but she resisted. She had no interest in anyone except Jared. They had practically grown up together and she had always known that he was the one for her. Of course that didn't stop others from taking an interest in her. Jared's best friend, Hector, had made clear his true affections for Trille on many occasions. They spent considerably more time together while Jared was gone then when he was around. Just enough time for Hector to fall in love with her. At first she considered him only as a friend but there was something else there and they both knew it. Of course she would never act on it her life was dedicated to Jared. But she thought about it perhaps a little too much for her own comfort. As long as Jared was around, Hector kept his feelings to himself and his distance from Trille.
Hector and Jared were physically about the same. Both boys had somewhat lanky frames that only hinted at their potential strength. They each had wavy, unkempt hair that always seemed to be in their eyes. What amazed Trille so much was how alike the two were in mannerisms and thought processes. They were constantly finishing each other's sentences. She could ask one of them something and invariably get the same answer from the other one. It was as if they were brothers.
When they were together it was almost as if she didn't even exist. The three of them would often sit out on a dividing ridge between two fields and talk over picnic lunches. Once they got into a discussion about the war or military machinery she could have gotten up and walked away and neither one of them would have noticed she was gone until the food ran out. It made her angry at them sometimes. They always chided her that she was jealous of their friendship. The only person Trille was ever that close with was Jared.
Jared ran the hand held scanner over an ear of corn that he had stripped off a stalk. The instrument was designed to listen to the sounds of the chlorophyll, hissing away as the chemical reactions sang their healthy tune. Finished with the ear he tossed it over his shoulder and climbed the ladder up to his ag-skiff.
The ag-skiff was a low, flat vehicle with tinted glass plates covering a climate controlled interior. It kept the occupant cool during the summer months when both suns were shining in the late afternoon. The seat was designed for keeping the occupant upright and comfortable for the long hard hours spent working in the fields. All the controls were oversized and practically idiot proof, intended to be used intuitively while your eyes were looking elsewhere.
Jared dropped the scanner into its hangar and searched the horizon for any signs of his friend Hector. They usually worked the same field so they could keep in touch throughout the day. Jared's light blue eyes squinted in the brilliant sunshine. He was beginning to get the familiar crows feet of a farmer at age eighteen. Catching a glimpse of something reflecting the suns he activated the comm link. Looking up again he saw the thin white column of smoke from a transfer rocket heading to orbit with a fresh load of Army recruits. Jared watched the stark white column against the blue sky as he spoke. Someday he would be on that rocket. Someday soon.
"I've finished my section, I'm heading in."
The comm link chirped and sputtered before Hector replied, "I'm finished here too. Wanna race back to dispatch? This is your last chance to beat me."
Jared studied the map displayed on his dashboard monitor. They were both about forty klicks out it would be a fair race. "You're on,” he said as he closed his canopy and retracted the pole ladder.
The ag-skiff's were not intended to be racers. They were designed for tractoring over fields, towing various farm implements to treat crops. Their engines were geared for slow, methodical movement, not for quick, flat-out sprints. But none of that ever stopped the younger farmers from tearing up the air above the corn and ringing their skiffs out in full-on races, especially when it was quitting time.
Hector had usually won the sprints back to the dispatch, positioning himself closer to the target as the day grew to a close. Jared had caught on to the subtle trick, but let his friend think otherwise. Today was going to be different. Today they were both equal distance from dispatch. Today, Jared would have a fair chance to win.
Pushing the throttle all the way open and leaning on the control yoke, Jared coaxed his skiff forward as fast as it was able to move. Riding a few meters off the ground, just high enough to clear the golden tassels, the ag-skiffs felt as if they were really cruising when in fact they were only moving at fifty klicks. The illusion of speed was due in part to how high they were above the corn. Looking down out of the canopy you could see the rows flying by and it at least felt as if you were really cruising. Never mind that it took forever to cover any amount of distance at that speed.
Jared had planned this race for weeks, taking out all unnecessary weight from his skiff and tuning its engine himself, to get as much speed out of it as possible. So far his efforts seemed to be paying off. His faded green ag-skiff was slowly moving ahead of Hector's faded yellow machine. A grin began to spread across his face and was soon ear to ear.
"Give it up, Shucker Boy, " he taunted his friend over the comm link.
The comm link was silent. Hector was too busy trying to catch up to pay lip service to Jared's taunts.
As the landing platform grew closer, the two ag-skiffs began to close in on each other with Jarred out in front. A female voice boomed over the comm link from the dispatcher's tower.
"Attention approaching vehicles, it is against company policy to exceed twenty five klicks. You are in violation of company regulations. Please decrease your speed immediately."
Jared opened a channel and blew a raspberry into the mic. He was going to win this time and he didn't give a damn about company policy on his final day at work. What were they going to do, fire him? Hector's ag-skiff had fallen in place squarely behind him. They were the only traffic in the pattern. Just a few more seconds and he would be the victor.
Hector's ag-skiff veered off to the right. Jared's vehicle began to sputter and belched a huge cloud of smoke. He looked over his shoulder at the commotion just in time to see the beat up, yellow ag-skiff blow past him. Hector was laughing and making faces as his ag-skiff overtook Jared's machine. Jared was too astonished to say anything as he powered down for landing. His engine had choked in the final seconds.
A small crowd of coworkers had gathered on the pad to watch them come in. As Hector's ag-skiff set down on its spindly struts, they all circled around it cheering for him.
Jared touched down nearby and began powering down his overworked mule. The old ag-skiff seemed to sigh with relief as it settled down on its landing struts. Jared watched his friend celebrating his victory and had to laugh at his own predicament. He never seemed to win at anything he and Hector ever fought over. It's a good thing Jared was leaving soon, because he'd probably never live down this race.
Jared joined the crowd and offered his hand to the winner. Hector shook it firmly and tried to hold back his pride, "Sorry old buddy, but you know I just hate to lose."
"Some people live a charmed life, and you're one of 'em."
"Just admit it Jared, you're a loser. You always have been and you always will be."
Jared brushed off the comment. It was just good natured boasting. They made their way up the access way to the dispatcher's office. As they were checking in their instruments, their conversation centered on Jared's leaving for deep space.
"We're supposed to spend a day or two on the way station in orbit. Our transfer ship is still being replenished,” Jared said, handing over his corn analyzer. The desk clerk dropped it into a recharge holster along with Hector's. In seconds all the data they had collected was downloaded into the agri firm's database.
"What ship are you taking?" Hector asked.
"The Belknap, I think."
Hector's eyes shined. He wanted to be going with his best friend and it was killing him that he wasn't. Which probably explained his overzealous boasting at winning their little race.
"That's the one Rickover took in Victor's Victory. Now that, was a show."
Jared nodded in agreement. Between them they had seen just about every war drama ever made and that's saying something. More war dramas were created in anticipation of the current conjunction, then at any time in the past history of the war. There were historical shows about past campaigns and fictional looks into possible future battles with hardware and weapons that were only dreams now. The end result being that more young people were volunteering to enlist than ever before. It was a banner year for recruiters and the central government couldn't have been happier. It also helped that more and more soldiers were coming home in recent years due in part to better designed defensive systems.
The war had become known as a Suit War, where heavily armored humans took on alien bugs in faceplate to faceplate combat. Nobody hid inside armored vehicles anymore. It was deemed too costly to risk killing ten people when one APV was hit. One highly mobile and armored suit warrior could do more damage than a single early war tank and cover more ground in doing it. Today's war was all about real estate on the three biggest moons of Betweos. The side that occupied the most moons, had an advantage of getting off good shots at the other's home world when the planet entered orbit around one star or the other. So far, the aliens had only managed to do that once. The resulting counter attack resulted in heavy losses for them when Elysia's rear guard finally arrived.
No human force had yet to survive the much shorter journey around Suth One, to launch attacks on Acheron. There had been several attempts, but none succeeded. The primary thrust of the current recruiting drive was to augment their forces to finally make such a journey. Jared felt enormous satisfaction and pride in knowing that he would be a part of that operation. In a few short months, when Hector was able to join him, they would both be in on the greatest military advance in the war's long and bloody history. It might even lead to an unconditional surrender of the Acheron Hives.
Jared and Hector sat beside each other in the monorail bound for the city. They were silent, each with their own thoughts. Their friendship often included such moments, when neither one would say anything. It drove Trille crazy to be around them when they fell silent. She didn't understand that sometimes men just didn't talk. It was enough just to be in each other's presence.
Their monorail glided silently to a stop along its magnetic field at the central city station. As the doors slid open, Jared and Hector exited and made their way down to street level. Trille was waiting for them there, her expression brightened when she recognized them in the crowd.
"So who won the final race, guys?" she asked as she threw her arms around Jared. She looked at Hector who raised his hand in silent acknowledgment. She winked at him like she always did when Jared wasn't looking.
As they parted, Hector decided to take his leave of them. He shook Jared's hand wished him luck and said good-bye to Trille. Jared watched him walk away then he focused on Trille.
"I couldn't wait for this time to come all day," he said, referring to their last night together.
"Me either," Trille echoed, as they clasped hands and strolled off in the direction of her place.
* * *
Trille's studio apartment was small but very cozy. Her double sized mattress dominated the main room. It was here that she and Jared had spent most of their time together leading up to his departure. They wanted to be with each other as much as possible, knowing that Jared would not be returning for at the very least sixteen months.
They stood just inside the door, embraced in a passionate kiss. When they parted, Trille said she had a gift for him. She led him to the bed and sat him down. From underneath her pillow she produced a tightly wrapped bundle of blue and white fabric. It was the Elysian flag. She placed it in his hands and kissed him again.
"I know it's old fashioned but I want you to keep it and think of me when you see it, " she said, unfolding the flag and wrapping it around them both like a blanket.
They spent their last evening together making love under the flag. When morning came, Jared quietly got up and put on his dress blues. His flight bag was already packed and ready to go.
He returned to the bed as Trille woke up. Her blond hair was golden in the sunlight that came through her only window. She sat up and the flag fell loosely around her shoulders. Jared took off a ring from his left hand and put it gently into hers.
"This ring belonged to my grandfather. He won it for conspicuous bravery in the face of the enemy. My father wore it during his tour and it protected him from danger. I want you to keep it until I return, a placeholder for our love.”
Trille began to cry. She knew how much the family heirloom meant to Jared and she couldn't believe he was giving it to her. He slid the golden band over her middle finger, surprising her again.
"Will you marry me, Trille?"
She wiped the tears from her eyes and wrapped her arms around his neck.
"Yes, oh my, yes."
"Let this be my promise to you that I will return and make you my wife."
They sat in each other's arms, holding onto each other tightly. Finally, it was time for him to go. They stood up together the flag still wrapped around Trille. She let go of his hands and unwrapped the flag from her nude form. They folded the flag until they were close together again.
"I love you Jared. Please come back to me."
* * *
Morning commuters flooded the streets of Ouranos as Jared made his way downtown, dressed in his blue and white recruit uniform and carrying his light duffle. He looked around at the faces that passed him. Most of them stared back at him with some level of respect and gratitude in their eyes. Where he was heading and what he was about to do he did for them. He was a soldier and soon he would be killing the enemy so that these people could live their lives in peace and prosperity.
It was a different way of looking at the war that he had never dwelled on or thought much about until now. His heart was heavy with pride and his footsteps lighter knowing he was about to leave for the adventure of his life. A smile etched itself on his face until he recognized a figure standing in the street ahead of him. His father, Jerna.
Jared slowed instinctively until he was arm’s length from his father. Jerna’s expression was odd. He didn’t look surprised and he didn’t look angry. He looked like he had expected to find his son here, about to board a shuttle for orbit.
“Your mother’s going to kill me when I tell her where you really are.”
Jared lowered his eyes, ready for the inevitable scolding he was about to receive. His only solace was knowing that he was legally an adult now and there was no way his father could stop him from going to war.
“Don’t tell her,” he offered.
Jerna shook his head. “I couldn’t do that to her.”
“How did you know I’d be here?” Jared ventured.
His father sighed and looked around at the other blue uniformed kids heading uptown. 
“I did the same thing to my parents.”
Jared looked up. He didn’t expect his father to say that. After all, his father was a legendary war hero.
“I thought Grandfather wanted you to fight?”
Jerna shook his head again. “He did everything in his power to stop me from going. I was young and stupid, just like you are now. Nothing was going to stop me from being a hero like he had become. I signed up for Suit Soldier, FiFo just like he had done. It wasn’t until I was in space that I found out I would be staying on the transfer ships. His influence in the army was still pretty powerful back then and he’d gotten my orders changed.”
Jared looked at his father’s face and saw the pain in his wrinkled eyes. 
“Why didn’t he want you to follow in his footsteps?”
“Because he knew there was a damn good chance I’d be killed or maimed. He understood how badly I wanted to prove myself in combat. But he also knew that he needed me to run the business. If I didn’t come home, there would be no legacy to pass down to his grandkids and his great grandchildren.”
“Were you disappointed when you couldn’t fight?”
Jerna shoved his hands into his pockets and nodded. “I was.”
“What did you do?”
“I endured the taunts of my buddies as they went off to fight while the son of Jarna stayed on the ship. It was humiliating. But I returned home and I learned everything I could from my father about farming. The business thrived and I too eventually had a son.”
Jared began to see the circle of life and his place in it. He suddenly felt immense love for his father. All his life he thought his father had chosen not to fight. That he had been some kind of coward. Now he knew the truth and it filled his heart with pride.
“I will come back, father,” he said, as he took a step forward and embraced Jerna.
“I will come back.”
Jerna patted him on the head and then let go. Jared continued on his way, looking back over his shoulder once. Was that pride on his father’s face or fear? He chose to believe it was pride.
* * *
Jared arrived at the spaceport a few minutes early and used the time to visit the war memorial a short block away. He knew the giant statue well and wanted to find his grandfather's cylinder. The statue was a twice life size depiction of three early war soldiers, standing on the remains of dead bug soldiers and defending themselves from an overwhelming advance of more alien bugs. Their backs were to each other and they were firing on an enemy that had them surrounded. The pose was as familiar to every citizen of Elysia as the colors of their own flag. It had been reenacted in war dramas and paintings and was even printed on the old paper money that was used at the time of its construction.
Jared remembered playing war games with Hector and some other friends when he was a kid. They always recreated this famous pose as they pretended to blast the enemy bugs to an imaginary oblivion. Jared's eyes swept the high, polished black stone sides of the monument where all the cylinders were placed that contained the remains of those who had made the supreme sacrifice. He knew just where to look to find his grandfather's golden cylinder cap. It was a scant two inches in diameter and was inscribed with his grandfather's name, serial number and regiment, one of many hundreds of thousands of such golden and silver caps that surrounded the monument.
As he walked slowly around the massive base of the monument, he heard a commotion. There were war protesters holding a peace rally at the far side of the monument. Jared stopped beside another young recruit dressed in uniform.
"What's going on?" Jared asked him.
"Some kind of peace-nik rally. I don't understand how they can be allowed to demonstrate here, of all places." The young man was much larger than Jared, with black hair and dark eyes. "Name's Saburo," he offered.
"Jared. These people make me sick just looking at them."
Saburo turned to look closer at Jared. "Say, you're not related to Jarna of the famous B-2 raid, are you?"
Jared had to smile it wasn't every day that someone asked him that. Despite how much of a legend his grandfather once was, it was generally considered ancient history by most people. “Yes, he was my grandfather."
Saburo shook Jared's hand, "Well I'll be, you shipping out today?"
Jared nodded.
"It's an honor to be serving with you Jared, grandson of the famous Jarna." The crowd let out a particularly harsh chant against the military. "We'd better be getting back to the spaceport?" Saburo stated. He started past the motley group of demonstrators.
Jared noticed that most of the protesters were actually veterans. They wore gray overcoats with unit patches and various war medals on them. Jared couldn't understand why veterans were protesting the war. They should be unit representatives for the recruiting posies, not gathering in public to protest the war. Dressed like vagrants with long stringy hair and dirty, ragged clothes. Then he noticed that most of these protesters were actually disabled veterans, missing legs and arms. He had never really seen this side of war before. It was more than a little unsettling.
One of the protesters stepped in front of Saburo and Jared. When they tried to walk around him, he countered, limping on what was obviously an artificial leg. The man was not much older then they were. His eyes had a hard, distant look to them.
"Hey everybody, look at the fresh meat. All dressed up for the butcher shop."
Other veteran protesters surrounded the two new soldiers. While the crowd continued singing peace songs.
"Ready to die for your government's ineptitude?" The one legged man quipped.
"Go home, boys. The war is no place for you to grow up," a second protester pleaded. She was wearing an old army overcoat with the sleeve tied in a knot where her left arm used to be. She had a red colored headband with Bug Myth printed on it in white. The other protesters had similar headbands that spoke of ending the war. They were carrying peace flags with three colored spheres on a black background.
Jared and Saburo had taken a defensive posture with their backs to each other. They tried to edge their way through the crowd, enduring taunts and jeers against the military. Jared made eye contact with a young woman with dark hair, dressed in rags and singing a peace anthem. She seemed to look right through him with her deep, brown eyes. In a moment she was gone, as the crowd moved on and let the two soldiers go on about their way.
* * *
The atmosphere around the military spaceport was decidedly more friendly and receptive then at the memorial. Newly minted soldiers were lining up to receive their pre-launch briefings and to get issued their space suits. Saburo and Jared fell in line with the others and we're slowly in-processed. Jared was impressed with the regal uniforms of the personnel running the spaceport. They were all highly decorated veterans with their chests weighted down with ribbons, their buckles and brass gleaming and their shoes polished to mirror like perfection. He wanted to be like them, to have their respect and admiration.
The transfer shuttle took off like a regular transporter, but was able to reach orbit with its ramjet engines and orbital rockets. Jared and Hector had watched them take off from out in the fields hundreds of times. The long, white contrails climbed into the light blue sky like a rocket's fiery trail. Many times he had wished that he was on that rocket, and now he was finally getting his chance.
The space suits they were fitted for were probably the most expensive thing they would own in the army. Made of a composite material with sections that were capable of shrinking over exposed limbs to maintain suit integrity. Each suit had to be adjusted and calibrated to very tight tolerances. The procedure was boring and a little intimidating, especially when you knew that you wouldn't finish paying for it until long after your tour of duty was over.
It was noon before they finally began boarding the transport. Everyone was a tired of processing and starving for something to eat. There would be no in-flight meal on this trip into the microgravity of space. Too many recruits in the past had lost their lunches as soon as the ship reached orbit, so now you had to wait until you were docked to the way station to eat. Jared didn't mind the wait he was too busy enjoying the ride.
The acceleration was mostly felt during take off as the sleek aircraft pulled up into a thirty-degree incline and rocketed into orbit. The whole thing took minutes, but seemed like seconds to Jared and Saburo. They had each managed to obtain window seats and watched from inside their face plates as the pale blue sky turned deep blue and then the stars came out like jewels in a sea of black felt.
Jared felt his stomach rise and churn but it didn't make him sick. Others were not so lucky. Looking around the cabin he saw several people with colorful face masks. As he scanned the seats across the aisle, he saw a familiar face. It was the girl with the dark eyes that he spotted at the peace demonstration. What was she doing here, he wondered? She returned his stare and he looked away. He had no interest in getting to know someone who didn't want to be here. Besides, he was committed to Trille now and he had every intention of returning to marry her.
Still, she was pretty. Maybe he'd introduce her to Saburo. He wondered if Saburo had a girlfriend, or if he was even married. There was so much to learn about his new friends and so much to learn about fighting, before they reached Betweos in six short months. He stared out the scratched porthole at the shining stars and felt relieved to finally be achieving his lifelong goal of becoming a warrior. He would miss the blue and white home below him and the simple life that he had led there. But not as much as he would revel in the excitement of defending that home.
________________


Chapter 3


A C H E R O N


The troop carrier’s dark interior lit up suddenly to reveal a circle of armoured RUTs pointing rifles at them. The ride had been short and bumpy to wherever they were now. Gaven dropped his weapon and stood up along with Slik and Shen. They all raised their hands in surrender, eyeing the troopers with a mixture of fear and suspicion. One of the troopers backed up to let a tall man dressed in black with short, spiked red hair come into the circle. 
“My name is Polit Officer Hacker. You are now conscripts of the Acheron Army. Failure to follow orders or comply with directives will result in your death. Do you understand”
He was speaking directly at Gaven, as if he knew who was in charge of them. Gaven glanced at Slik and Shen. Their eyes were wide, waiting for him to respond. Gaven looked back to the ramrod straight Polit Officer.
“We understand.”
Hacker’s face was square jawed and closely shaven. It was marred only by a single laceration that ran down his right cheek. The cut had been treated, but was fresh and hadn’t scabbed yet.
“Outstanding,” Hacker replied with alarmingly good spirit. His dark eyes contrasted sharply to his fair skin and bright red hair. He turned to the nearest RUT and spoke.
“Get them cleaned up and ready for the trip to orbit.”
The trooper clicked his metal heels and came to attention. Hacker eye balled Slik and Shen, shook his head dismissively and did an about face. As he strode off, Gaven got the distinct feeling they had not seen the last of him. 
* * * 
Gaven and Slik were pushed along a narrow corridor until they entered a room filled with other topsiders. They were ordered to strip down naked and then paraded through a series sanitary showers that somehow managed to clean most of the dirt and grime off their thin, wiry bodies. Gaven felt like cattle heading off to the slaughter. It was degrading, humiliating and uncomfortable in just about every way imaginable.
After being cleaned they were issued underclothes and taken to a white, sterile room. Medical personnel gave them blood transfusions with an enhanced synthetic compound called coboglobin. It turned their blood an eerie amber color which presented as clear under their skin. Gaven asked what it was for and was quickly  silenced. Rumours soon spread that it gave them accelerated healing properties but Gaven figured that was just wishful thinking. 
Finally they were allowed to be dressed in simple red uniforms with black belts and black leather boots - the colors of the Acheron Army. The uniforms actually fit pretty well, better than the hand-me-down rags he had worn all his life. He had never been so clean and perfumed with soap. They were marched to yet another room and given quarter inch haircuts. Slik sat beside Gaven as the barbers began quickly shearing their heads with buzzing clippers.
Now they all looked alike; bald, dressed in plain red uniforms and smelling like antiseptic cleaner compared to the polluted surface where they had come. Their uniforms had their ID’s and names embedded in them in tiny, electronic markers. 
They filed into another line for food.
Each person was issued a metal tray and one utensil, a combination spoon and fork with short blunt tines. Gaven looked at his plate after he sat down. It was more food than he’d seen in a week. As the others gorged themselves, he focused on the single ear of corn. It was golden colored and smelled nothing like the flint corn he had stolen from the lower classes to feed his tribe. Black dressed polit officers swarmed around them goading them to eat quickly. Gaven picked up the corn and started to eat it with his fingers. 
One of the polit officers slapped it out of his hands and cursed him for not using his spork. Gaven slowly picked up his utensil to eat the meat and vegetables. He only got a few bites down before his table was forced to stand and leave. The yellow corn still on his plate uneaten.
* * *
Gaven, Slik and about twenty other people found themselves boarding a shuttle that would rocket them into space. Slik was seated a few rows ahead of Gaven who found himself in a window seat. Gaven stared blankly out of the scratched window at the various ground crew preparing their shuttle for take off. It was drizzling rain and he watched it collect in puddles at the feet of the scurrying people, covered from head to toe in protective gear.
Others filled in the row beside him. Gaven didn’t recognize any of them. They were all Topsiders, like himself, and none of them were by any means athletic. Most were just as skinny as he was and many were suffering from malnutrition. It was a tough life in the upper classes. Constantly exposed to the toxic surface air and only managing to steal food from the lower classes to survive. 
Gaven had a decent public servant job a few dozen levels down, but he didn’t make enough to provide for the entire tribe. You could only steal so many ears of corn and pilfer so many tossed meals to feed a dozen kids. He knew it was only a matter of time before someone followed him up and discovered his true home was outside, on the surface of Acheron. All the wealthy and smart people migrated to the lower levels hundreds of years ago, leaving behind a planetary garbage heap of discarded metal, plastic and toxic waste. Most lower class people never saw the surface or had to breathe its filthy air to live. They all resided in the lowest levels where everything was white and clean and nobody went hungry or was without a job.
Gaven would watch them go about their daily lives and wonder what it would be like to be one of them. To never have a constant ache in his belly, to never suffer trench sickness or the Scabs. It was not something that he yearned for because he knew he would never achieve anything more with his life than basic existence. When just living for another day was all you could hope for in life, there was no time to wonder how the lower levels lived, or why they seemed to have such blessed lives while you and your friends labored just to live.
Movement in the seat ahead of him caused him to look up. It was Shen, peeking back at him from the edge of her seat. Her soft skin was smooth and clean. Her scabs were gone and her brown hair pulled back behind her ears. She winked at him with a sly grin and then turned back around. Gaven couldn’t believe how much she had changed. How beautiful her face was to him. She looked even better than she did before the Scabs took hold of her. Cleaner. Maybe their station in life had been improved. At least for the moment. But Gaven knew exactly where they were heading and he didn’t want to go there. 
The hatches were closed and within minutes their shuttle was lifting off in the turbulent gray skies of Acheron. The ride to orbit was bumpy and jarring. Some of the kids around him fell to sleep in the darkened cabin. But Gaven couldn’t stop looking out his porthole in wonder at the sites he was seeing. Lightning storms lit up the clouds until their shuttle shot up and out of the clouds on a steady, smoother ride into the thin air of the upper atmosphere.
Gaven had never seen such a vista. Millions of lights twinkled in the blue gray skies as air gave way to space. A kid beside him stared out the porthole along with Gaven. The kid breathed, “I’ve never seen the stars before.” Neither had Gaven.
Their shuttle altered course and started heading for what looked to gaven like a ring around the planet. As they got closer he realized it was man made. A mechanical ring around Acheron that he had never known existed. It glimmered in the brilliance of red sunlight from the nearest of the two stars, Suth One. Starlight was yet another thing he had never fully seen. It was brighter and more intense than anything he had ever known. Even brighter than the combat flares he used to confuse the RUT’S sensors.
As the shuttle continued to maneuver Gaven was treated to yet another incredible sight. A long, black and red ship was docked to the ring. It was cigar shaped and had a wheel that rotated around the center of the ship. He knew it was the transfer ship that carried Acheron soldiers to the rogue planet that traveled between Suth One and Suth Two. The rumors and legends passed down to his tribe were coming true. They would were being shipped to Betweos to fight the Elysians. He was going from the frying pan directly into the fire of war. What his crazy uncle had told him before he died was all true. The upper class existed for only one purpose in life and that was to ensure that the lower classes lived in prosperity. Their lives were nothing but a series of fights from the cradle to the grave. Expendable meat for the benefit of others who would be forever privileged.
With the glare of the sun and the metal ring out of his view he saw for the first time the tiny white lights of distant stars. They were like glitter spilled across a black velvet sheet. He knew that the stars were suns, just like Suth One and Two, but very far away. His jaw fell open as he realized the true scale of the universe in which he lived. Suddenly his misery and the suffering of his tribe paled in significance next the grandeur of space. What could he possibly do that would make a difference in the vastness of the universe?
He felt someone’s eyes on him and looked up to see Shen’s fragile smile glowing in the darkened cabin. Her eyes were as dark as space with a glimmer of red starlight.
* * *
The shuttle emptied out into a larger room inside the ring structure. Everyone was herded into a single formation with enough room between them for training sergeants to wind through, barking insults and instructions in equal parts. Gaven stood deep in the formation and focused on the back of someone’s head. He couldn’t shake the feeling that he was heading into a new level of hell, one higher than the surface of Acheron and as far away as those distant stars out the porthole window.
A short man was shouting at him and it quickly brought him out of his daze.
“Are you deaf? Get the hell out of my formation, Topper!”
Gaven stepped back and headed where a few other people were reforming nearby. He recognized Slik and Shen among his squad as he formed up again and found himself staring at the bald head of another recruit.
A solidly built female instructor stood before them. “I’m your Squad Leader, Alex. We are the Gamma Squad.”
Alex started shouting words that Gaven had never heard before but would soon learn were commands to start marching. The squad began moving in formation, following their leader into the dark corridors of the ring station. After a short while they changed into a wider corridor and started to jog in formation. Gaven didn’t have a problem jogging. His lean form was used to running from RUTs in full chemical ponchos and respirators. 
They came to a stop before a gate that led out to the transfer ship. Their squad leader kept them at attention as she checked them into the manifest. Gaven let his eyes wander out the windows at the transfer ship. It was much older when seen close up. He could see chipped metal, blast scars from enemy weapons and the occasional newly painted replacement hull panel. There were streaks of yellow and gray dust all over it as if it had been run through a mud puddle. Gaven had no idea where the ship had been but it didn’t look good at all.
* * *
After a winding march through the bowels of the Elpida they eventually arrived at the narrow room that would be their barracks. Alex assigned them each a bunk and a closet and then had them gather in the center aisle at ease.
“Welcome to the Elpida, your home for the next two years. This is the transfer ship that will take us to Betweos.”
Gaven raised his hand and braced for a face full of screaming. But all Alex did was point to him. “Yes?”
“Will we be coming back on the Elpida, Squad Leader?”
Alex surveyed the other squad members as her expression hardened. “Only a few of you will come back.”
There were ten people in the squad and Gaven figured each one of them was betting he or she would be one the ones to come back. Not him. He knew deep inside that he would not be coming back. It wasn’t a hunch or a morbid foreboding, he just didn’t expect there would be anything worth coming back for.
“If you do make it back you will be given lower class status and a state job for life. I’ve been to Betweos five times and only one person has come back to claim that new life.”
Gaven could hear the air let out of everyone as they all realized the odds were horribly against them. He raised his hand again.
“How long will we be in the combat zone?”
“Good question. It will take us six months to make the journey to Betweos. For the final two weeks of that journey we will be in the hot zone. Enemy missiles can reach us at that point. You will be combat dropped onto one of the moons and will stay there until your mission is complete. When all of your missions are over you will be ferried back to the Elpida until you are reassigned to another mission. This will continue for a year or until you’re killed in action. If you survive that long, you will board either the Elpida or one of the other transfer ships for an eight month return trip.”
Alex surveyed the deflated faces and then her face lifted and a sly grin appeared. “Your best chance for making it home is to learn to fight. Learn your suit, your weapons and your combat tactics. Help one another at all times. Teamwork saves lives and achieves the mission goals. Start to fracture as a group and you will all die.”
Gaven caught Slik’s eyes looking at him. He seemed confident, as if he knew they would be fine as long as they all stuck together. Gaven noticed Shen’s big eyes and open jaw as she returned his look. Her chances were probably less than either Gaven or Slik. She was not the fighter that they were on the surface. She had always been a liability to them. Now they would have to depend on her. Gaven didn’t think that was remotely possible.
“I will be your squad leader for BMT, Basic Military Training. When I’m done with you, you will be fit and fierce fighters. You will then proceed to suit training where Polit Officer Hacker will teach you how to wear, repair and fight in your armor. By then we’ll be ready for your first combat drop.”
Alex came to attention and shouted, “Fall, in!”
They all formed up as best they could into two columns of five. 
“In your lockers you will find PT uniforms. Change into them and stand beside your bunk when finished. Fall, out!”
________________






Chapter 4
I O U D A S




Basic Military Training was four weeks of grueling exercise and boring classes about military customs and courtesies. Nobody liked it and everyone eventually learned to keep their traps shut about how much they hated it. Days would start with a five mile run around the perimeter of the rotating ring followed by a sparse meal and then four hours of lecture followed by calisthenics and a mid-day meal. That was usually followed several hours of formation drill that found them back in their billeting for another hour of how to fold clothes and make their beds. 
Alex would hammer anyone not performing to their utmost ability in anything she was teaching them from how to crease their underwear to advanced drill moves. Slackers found themselves doing extra details like cleaning the toilets or scrubbing the floors. Gaven soon learned that even if he kept his nose clean and performed as expected of him, he still did his fair share of crap details.
After the third straight day of folding, refolding and creasing their uniforms until they all measured up with Alex’s metal ruler, she finally told them why she was so focused on minutia. “It’s the little things that get you killed in combat. If we can’t trust you to properly make your bed and fold your own damn clothes, how the hell can we trust you with an expensive combat suit?”
Gaven thought there was probably some truth to that. But then he knew some trenchers who couldn’t find their way home from a patrol no matter how many times they covered the same landscape of pipes and metal boxes, but they could take down two RUTS with fewer shots than he could.
Slik had issues doing some of the exercises and his weight lifting was pathetic. When it came to running though, he could keep going all day. His body was thin and lean and no matter how much he ate or lifted, his muscles refused to bulk up. Alex told him he was destined to be a scout and would probably be the first in the squad to die. Scouts had a shorter lifespan in combat due to their lighter armor and smaller size. Telling him he would probably die first, didn’t seem to motivate him in any noticeable way. But then Gaven knew that argument wouldn’t work with Slik. She would have been better off tell him he could kill more enemy if he bulked up for the main battle suits. After Gaven mentioned that to Slik the kid started finding ways to keep on his muscle and by the end of BMT, he was able to lift the minimum amount for the regulars.
Gaven had little trouble keeping up with Alex and the other squad mates. He hated the running part, but he fought through the pain like everyone else. Including Shen. Her scabs treatment and a regular diet started filling her out and toning her muscles more than anyone else Gaven had known on the surface. She was starting to look damn good to just about everyone. She seemed to enjoy the attention, something she had never experienced until now. Gaven found himself staring at her at times and had to look away to keep his thoughts clear.
Sex with the other trainees was forbidden until they had graduated. Cameras in the barracks and the open shower and toilet facilities made getting away with it just about impossible. That didn’t stop people from getting off, it just made it harder not to watch.
* * *
Graduation day was just like every other day except they were all ordered into what was called the Indoctrination Room. The uniform was dress reds, crisply ironed shirts and pants with shiny black belts and boots. Gaven hated the Acheron dress uniform. It was stiff and uncomfortable and it restricted his movements making him feel like a paper soldier. 
The IR was empty with black walls and bare metal floors. The only light came from a narrow spot that shined down on them like a back room confessional. Polit Officer Hacker entered the room wearing a blue and white uniform that nobody had ever seen before. It was bright and impressive in its military cut and polish. Gaven wondered if this is what they would wear after BMT. Alex put them at ease in their open ranks formation.
The harsh spot light followed Hacker around the room as he weaved in and out of their formation.
“I want you people to take a very close look at the uniform I’m wearing. This is the uniform of your enemy, the Elysian Army. From now on, I, am your enemy. I will do everything in my power to make you hate me and everything I represent. Do you understand?”
The Squad came to attention and answered him as one, “Sir, yes sir!”
Hacker made his way to the front of the squad and faced them with a look of utter disgust on his scared face. “Acheron topsiders are the lowest form of humans. You’re genetically inferior to us Elysians. We consider you lower than the lowest, diseased insects that feed on our garbage. In fact, to us you’re all considered vermin. Something to be eradicated from the system like pests. The sooner you’re all gone, the better off the system will be. The safer it will be for the rightful heirs of Elysia.”
His words didn’t really have much of an effect on anyone. They had never known a threat from Elysia. Living in abject poverty and evading capture by their own army was more of a concern than some far away world that they had never seen or heard much about. The war was only important to the lower classes. 
Hacker knew they would be apathetic to him and the war. He knew that he had to take something they did care about to get their attention. He stopped before Slik and stared into his dark eyes. Slik’s mouth half formed a smirk in return.
“We killed everyone you left behind on the surface. All of your family, friends and gang mates were murdered by one of our attack drones,” Hacker said. Slik’s smirk faded as his face went dark.
Hacker moved past him and stood before Shen. Her eyes struggled to stay focused past the intimidating Polit Officer.
“We killed your grandmother. She was burned to a crisp by one of our incendiary rounds. Your little sisters? Killed by residual explosions from the drones. What was your little sister’s name? Crys? She was quartered by the drone guns.”
Shen started to shake out of anger and fear. Hacker moved away to the next man as Shen’s tears began to flow down her cheeks. She resisted wiping them for fear of reprisal.
“We killed your father. His name was Crenn wasn’t it?”
The man nodded. “He couldn’t outrun the drones either. They cut him in half. It was quite a mess.”
The man didn’t react so Hacker moved on. He stood in front of Gaven next. Gaven drew a breath, anticipating the worst.
“You were the leader of the Roofer’s gang, weren’t you? Not much of a gang was it? Our drones killed every member of your group that the Acheron Army left behind. A dozen more bugs killed right in their own shit pile.”
Gaven didn’t react. He figured it was all an act to get them to hate the enemy. Hacker saw the disbelief on his face and his stern face cracked a sinister smile.
“One of your hoodlum friends managed to get a shot off at me,” he pointed to the scar on his cheek. “He was a rabid little one, called Grim.”
Gaven looked directly at Hacker.
“Oh, are you perhaps wondering what happened to little Grim? My drones took him out. He’s quite dead now.”
Gaven grimaced and said, “I don’t believe you.”
Hacker’s twisted smile remained as he turned around to the blank wall in front of the squad and raised his arms. The walls materialized into a holographic view of the surface of Acheron. Gaven and the others recognized the landscape immediately. It was their home turf. It was so real, they actually felt as if they were back on the surface.
The bleak surface was even more so with the fires burning from huge blast craters. Columns of thick, black smoke trailed into the dark, cloudy skies. Bodies were strewn about in various death poses. The recording device moves over the corpses, lingering so that the dead could be recognized. Acheron Army soldiers are bent over trying to help those who were hanging on to life. A crashed drone with blue and white roundels on it was the only hint of who had attacked.
Some members of the squad fell to their knees crying in anguish as they recognized family members. Shen was one of them after seeing both of her sister’s bodies torn to pieces. Hacker turned around with a gleeful look on his face. “We did this to your friends and family. We killed every last one of them! It was the first drone attack of it’s kind on your homeworld. Your planetary defenses never saw it coming and could not protect the surface from direct attack by our war drones. It was a glorious success and it marks a turning point in the war with Acheron. It’s only a matter of time before we destroy your army at Betweos and let loose our interplanetary war drones to permanently exterminate all life on Acheron.”
Gaven no longer doubted that his tribe was gone. But he didn’t think the enemy had killed them. He was convinced that Hacker had slaughtered the topsiders and made it look like an enemy attack. In the end it didn’t matter if he were telling the truth about the attack or not. From now on Hacker was going to pay for what had happened. All of Gaven’s hatred would be focused on just one target and it was not an Elysian soldier. He would kill Hacker or die trying.
* * *
The secondary battle arms were attached to Alex’s waist and controlled by her mind as if they were artificial limbs. They traveled smoothly around her waist on fluid tracks letting her face two opponents at once. Her armour was painted a dark, safety orange and was half the thickness and weight of the actual battle armour. 
Two squad members were sparing with her, Slik in front and Evid behind her as she demonstrated proper fighting form.
“The waist mounted SBA’s or Secondary Battle Arms are designed to protect your ass when your attentions are elsewhere during trench fighting. Once activated, they are guided by sensors on your armour and work completely independent.”
She twisted and moved around the training room, her SBA’s wielding a rifle while she held a plasma cutter in her own arms. Her movements were fluid and seemed second nature to her. 
“Okay Evid, you attack me from behind and Slik here will take me face on. Observe how the SBA’s let me ignore Evid’s attack.”
Alex motions for both of them to attack her. Evid lunges towards her and the SBA’s engage him in basic sparring moves. He’s barely able to press his attack spending all his energy in defensive moves. Meanwhile, Slik’s attack is more aggressive and forceful with full on swings of his rubber beam cutter. Alex is easily able to defend herself without looking behind at what Alex is doing.
Evid takes a new approach and one of Alex’s SBA’s grabs his arm and pins him down while the second mechanical arm brings the cutter across his chest in a simulated kill. Slik’s attack is thwarted by a nasty jab that ends up with his neck locked in her elbow and her cutter across his throat.
Alex lets them go and turns around to face Avid. “In an actual battle, you would have been dispatched by my Personal Defense Cannons without me even knowing you were behind me.”
Both men return to ranks as Alex returns to the combat ready position.
Gaven notices someone staring at him and looks over to see Shen lifting a challenging eyebrow.
* * * 
Shen’s attack presses through Gaven’s cutter and forces her helmeted head right in his face. Her war scream scrunches her face as she blasts him. He can feel her warm breath across his cool face. They were both wearing the SBA’s but hers somehow got wrapped around his chest and were squeezing the breath out of him. He grimaced, waiting for Alex to call mercy but she only praised Shen’s brutal attack.
Gaven tried to twist out of the hold but was unable to free himself with brute force. His SBA’s adjusted beneath him and suddenly she flew off of him and hit hard on the padded mat.
“Gaven, you better wake up or she’s going to kill you!” Alex shouted. She blew her whistle. Shen had flipped herself over and was pressing her attack again without pause.
She twisted through his defensive posture as Gaven struggled against his own SBAs. Fighting them instead of letting them help him. She took advantage of this and quickly pinned him down against the mat. Her sweaty hair drips onto his face as her face grimaces above him.
“What’s the matter, boy? Am I slowing you down?” she taunted him.
Gaven shakes off the sweat and cranes his head up to her face to kiss her firmly on the lips. The move startles Shen and allows Gaven a moment to adjust his mechanical arms to toss her from him. In the blink of an eye he’s on top of her, pinning her firmly to the mat.
“Not yet,” he replied.
The move impressed the other squad members. They applaud his efforts and whistle their approval. Shen just stared up at him incredulous as Alex blew her whistle and Gaven got off of her.
“Very original move, Gaven. But you’ll find it hard to kiss the enemy when you’re both in armour.”
Gaven shrugs and gives Shen a playful smile. Her stern look sours his enthusiasm.
“Okay people, let’s de-suit and return the SBA’s to the armorer. Hit the showers before mess call.”
As they start helping each other out of the SBAs, Slik edges closer to whisper at Gaven.
“She’s pretty sweet, huh?”
Gaven frowns, remembering the taste of her sweat. “Kinda bitter, actually.”
Slik is confused by the response but doesn’t risk pressing the matter as they store their practice armour.
* * *
Steam filled the shower stalls as recruits hurriedly soaped up and rinsed off to make room for the next squad. There were only enough sprayer heads for ten soldiers and they only had water for two minutes. Lather and rinse, then the air dryers buffeted them for a minute. Single file out and the next squad files in afterwards. No time to loiter. No time for grab ass.
In the locker room people were jumping into their duty uniforms as fast as they could in order to make formation in time to march to the chow line. Gaven cornered Shen against her locker near the back of the room. She had already dressed when she sensed his presence and turned around. He was inches away from her and still naked.
“You startled me,” she said. A nervous smile on her face.
“What’s your problem? Neither of us escaped Roundup, so why the attitude?”
She looked down for a moment. “I want you.”
His face scrunched up as he tried to make sense what she had just said.
She looked back up at him, her dark eyes fixed on his mouth as she pulled his head down and kissed him deeply. She suddenly let go of him and hurried out to the formation. Gaven stood there in a daze as others passed him by. He didn’t make formation in time and was put on a week’s worth of shit details, cleaning toilets and doing laundry. She had kissed him. 
________________
Chapter 5


I O U D A S






The mess hall was long and narrow with enough tables to seat four squads at once. Soldiers were forced to drink a glass of water before eating any food to ensure they were hydrated. The food was plain and looked about the same going in as it did coming out. Not the least bit appetizing. The instructors didn’t want them eating any more than was necessary to sustain them through their training. Nobody gained weight and everyone stayed the same, ideal fighting size.
Gaven and Slik faced each other at opposite sides of the table. Slik stirred his slop and shook his head. His voice was lowered to just over a whisper. “After two months of this shit, you’d think I’d develop a tolerance for it.”
Gaven nodded in agreement, eating his slop and trying not to taste it. He glanced down the table at Shen who returned his look with a sly smile. He finds himself grinning back at her until Slik catches him.
“You two are getting out of hand, man.”
Gaven’s smile faded as he stared down his friend. “That’s none of your business.”
Slik is disgusted as he spooned in more slop and made a bitter face swallowing it. They finished their meal in silence. 
* * *
The squad berth was dark as Slik slowly walked down the center of the room. He had pulled guard duty for the first half of the sleep period. Not because he wanted to but because Gaven had needed him to cover for him. Said he was trying to get ahead by sneaking off someplace to repolish all of his boots. He said Alex was going to ream him a new hole if he didn’t break his boots down to the leather, re-stain them and polish the shit out of them until she could see her face reflected in them. That sort of thing took time and Gaven couldn’t accomplish it during the awake period. So he got Slik to pull night guard and not report his absence. 
It was not that unusual of a request. People did it all the time throughout training to get ahead at some task they were failing at. Sometimes they did it in tandem so that one could learn from another. Teamwork is what Alex called it and she rarely clamped down on anyone caught doing it. It was Hacker that they had to be on the alert for. He didn’t bunk near the berth like Alex did. He was liable to show up at any time and harass anyone he chose. Slik and all the other recruits were learning to really hate that son-of-a-bitch.
Slick ran his flashlight’s beam over the tops of the bunks counting lumps under the red blankets. Gaven’s bunk was flat and still perfectly made. As Slik turned back around he flashed the other side of the aisle and noticed another perfectly flat bunk. Curious who it was, he crept over until he could see clearly the faces of those still in their bunks. It was Shen. Fuck.
* * *
The amory was dark but not quiet. Rhythmic slapping noises could be heard among the silent, lurking shells of combat armor. Reflected off the twin cam shell helmets along a storage wall were two sweaty bodies pounding away furiously in carnal lust. Shen was on top, bobbing back and forth until she started to moan uncontrollably. Gaven instinctively covered her mouth with his hand as she writhed in ecstasy. Her smothered moans eventually died out and they hurriedly switched positions, trying to get as much pleasure from each other as time permitted. Knowing they could be caught at any moment.
The danger of being found out was part of the lure for them. They had consecrated their relationship in many different locations around the ship and had never gotten caught. This led them to continue their secret rendezvous for as long as they could. Pushing their luck, while pushing each other to even greater heights of pleasure. They finally finished and collapsed in each other’s arms on a bed of their own clothes. The armory was cooler than any room they had done it before. Which felt good as their breath returned to normal and their sweaty bodies cooled.
Shen rested her head upon his chest as it rose and fell. She looked up at him, lying with his head tilted up and gazing down at her. “Do you love me, Gaven?”
His face was flush but emotionless in the darkness.
“I love this,” he admitted.
“But you don’t feel anything at all for me?”
Gaven wrapped his hand across her bare butt and caressed it. She looked away, annoyed with is refusal to commit to her. 
“Don’t spoil the fun, Shen. In a month we could both be dead. Then what would it matter?”
She toyed with his chest hairs for a moment. “It would mean the world to me.”
Gaven pulled her up until her face was level to him. He kissed her deeply and she returned the affection. Before long they were going at it again.
* * *
The security troopers intercepted her as she was exiting the head. They were armed and told her they were taking her to Polit Officer Hacker’s office. A lump grew in her throat as they marched her down the narrow corridors of the Ioudas. Her first instinct was to wonder if she had somehow failed her training but as they marched to Hacker’s office it was becoming clear to her that the real reason was that he had found out about her clandestine trysts with Gaven. She knew they shouldn’t have trusted Slik. He had always hated her for some damn reason and now he had probably turned her in once he realized her and Gaven were both gone last sleep period. 
She didn’t have time to ponder the betrayal before they arrived at Hacker’s office. One of the guards popped open the hatch and the other pushed her inside. The hatch was shut behind her with an ominous thud. 
Hacker was sitting at his metal desk, facing her. She assumed the position of attention and sounded off. “Private Shen reporting as ordered, sir!”
Hacker ignored her, scrolling over objects on his desktop screen. Shen started to perspire. A bead of sweat trickled down the side of her head making her want to dab it with her hand but she dared not move while at attention.
Finally Hacker looked up at her with his black, serpentine eyes.
“You’ve been a bad girl, private.”
Shen swallowed hard. Her mouth was suddenly very dry. She tried to prepare herself for the worst, telling herself to remain calm. That’s when Hacker activated the wall display behind him. It displayed infrared footage of her and Gaven screwing in the armory last night. The images were clear and had a very pornographic feel to them. She stared at the footage in shock at how revealed they were. Then her shock gave way to embarrassment, which quickly morphed into anger as Hacker continued to let the images play.
“Violating curfew, sexual fraternization with another soldier. These are serious violations, private.”
Shen did not respond. She stared through the graphic images and did her best to stay calm.
“I could have you busted down to basic or even put off my ship, via the airlock.”
She looked down at him, her face red with anger, her fists balled tight. Hacker’s calm expression went from mock pity to a devilish grin.
“Unless you agree to help me.”
* * *
The darkened physical training room smelled of stress induced sweat. Alex’s soldiers were dressed in full practice armour with their Secondary Battle Arms. They were attacking holographic Elysian soldiers in blue and white battle armor. Most of them were getting their asses handed to them by the holographic enemy. 
Polit Officer Hacker moved through their ranks, observing and shaking his head. He’s wearing the same pale blue and gray armor as the holographs. Alex is wearing her usual black and red combat fatigues.
“Six months in space and most of you still can’t beat a damn hologram?”
“Of course not. They are incapable of defeating us,” Hacker taunts not just the soldiers but Alex too.  
“Not at this rate, anyway,” Alex mutters as she fixes a soldier’s armor plating. “How many times have I got to tell you maggots? Your armor is your life! Either you wear it correctly you will die!”
“They’ll die,” Hacker said with snide confidence.
Alex flashed the officer an irritated glare that Hacker ignored as he walked around the pathetic soldiers. He stopped beside Gaven who was holding his own against his holographic enemy. He could feel Hacker’s beady eyes watching him closely but did his best to ignore the man. Alex approached Gaven, impressed with his technique but not his form. “Keep your back straight. Good. You’re doing much better Gaven.”
She looked over at Hacker who took a hand controller from her. “This one’s showing some promise,” Alex said.
Hacker changed the controller to a higher level. “Let’s see just how good he is, shall we?”
The enemy hologram charged with a sudden renewed vigor and Gaven is knocked backwards onto the training room floor.
________________






Chapter 6
E L P I D A


Jared’s attack knocked the bug soldier holograph backwards onto its carapace where he proceeded to rupture the weaker belly armor and explode it into simulated pieces. Jared disengaged and returned to his ready position. His instructor, Stickman, moved through the smoky images of a far away battlefield to stand beside Jared. “Outstanding soldier! You have a gift for fighting.”
“I was born to kill, sir!” Jared responded with youthful exuberance.
Stickman shook his head and turned away from the simulation. A tall, thin man with dark skin and black hair cut high and tight, the weapons trainer had earned the respect of all the soldiers under his command. He was the only one they knew who had been to Betweos and had survived a combat tour. A true veteran who knew how to fight. 
“Nobody’s born to do anything, son. Killing is a learned skill, killing efficiently is the mark of a well trained soldier.”
“Then I shall be the best trained soldier in the Elysian Army, sir”
Stickman shook his head again and turned away to the next combatant. “Don’t flatter me son, I’ve trained more people to kill than you’ve ever met. Some have returned as heroes and some have never been heard from again.”
Jared didn’t seem to be fazed by the lecture.
“Whether or not you survive will be determined by how much you want to live. Or by random chance, one of the other,” Stickman laughed, amused by what he had said.
Jared stepped aside and Saburo entered the sparing circle to face the six legged bug soldiers. 
“Okay Saburo, show me what you got.”
Saburo traded respectful nods with Jared and assumed the ready position. He had slimmed down some around the waist but he was still an imposing man. Stickman bowed to his disciple and then activated the holographic simulation. Two bug soldiers appeared and immediately attacked the startled Saburo.
* * *
Jared started removing pieces of his battle armour before he stepped inside the armoury. There were other soldiers suiting up to enter the simulator rooms. The armoury was well lit with mostly white walls and shiny chrome tables and chairs. Each soldier had a suitor helping them dress in the battle armour. Jared’s suitor is a short, young man named Jinx. The Elysian Army rarely turned down volunteers, so even if you were not tall enough to be a suit soldier, you could serve your term in space as a support technician. Jinx and Jared had gotten along pretty well since they were paired up. Jinx was there to serve his every need during training. The suitors were not considered subservient, they were essential support crew who were highly trained in suit fit, maintenance and repair. A soldier would keep the same suitor even as he left the safety of the Elpida and entered combat on one of the Betweos moons. Suitors stayed behind at the maintenance depots and were only called into the field when there was a problem that the soldier couldn’t fix by himself.
“How did the Bug Army hold up against you today, sir?”
Jared smiled at the sardonic humor of his suitor. “Not very well. Stickman says I have excellent fighting skills.”
Jinx hunched his shoulders and said, “Mmm, the man does have the unnerving ability to state the obvious sometimes.”
Jared ignored the dig as he quickly and efficiently removed his armor and handed each piece to Jinx. After several month’s combat training in space, Jared’s face had lost its youthful naivety and now imparted the assurance of a trained and confident soldier. Not one who’s seen any real combat, but one who was completely comfortable with life as a suit soldier.
“You start low gravity drills tomorrow, sir. I’ll have your amour polished and fitted to a perfection.”
Jared patted the man on his shoulder as he removed the final boot. “Thanks Jinx.” Jared picked up one of his leg shields and handed it to Jinx. “This one came loose on me today. See if you can fix it or replace it. I don’t want to lose points worrying about it.”
“Yes, sir. Anything else I can do for you? Maybe speed up the ship so you can get to the latest front sooner?”
That one caused Jared to smile, finally. “I’ll get there soon enough.” He stood up and headed out of the armory. He could just hear Jinx mutter under his breath, “Not soon enough for me.” Jared ignored the comment. 
* * *
The Elpida had passed the halfway point between Elysia and the gas giant Betweos. Jared’s squad got a lecture from Stickman about their increased exposure to enemy fire. Missiles fired from one of the enemy held moons of Betweos could reach them from here on out. They were called HOM’s or Hit Or Misses, due to how inaccurate they were. HOM’s were more of a terror weapon, designed to give incoming Elysian soldiers pause about where they were headed and what their chances of survival were. 
Stickman told them that the Elysian Army did the same thing to the Acheron transfer ships coming to Betweos from their home world. Except their missiles were more accurate and had taken out several enemy transfer ships in previous campaigns. Jared heard about their success rate and figured the HOM’s were just about as accurate as the Elysian missiles. The odds of getting hit by one were about the same. 
Jared had to traverse the longest corridor on the spinning, gravity wheel of Elpida to get back to his berthing area. There were a few slit portholes along the outside wall and he always took a moment to peek out one in hopes of seeing anything but stars and the black of space. This time he noticed a flare of brilliant light that caused him to put up his hands over his eyes. Before his vision returned from seeing spots the show was over. What the hell was that? He lingered an extra few seconds, looking all around as other soldiers passed by him. The entire ship started to shudder under his feet. The vibrations stopped almost as quickly as they had started. Something hit us. Oh crap, it was probably a HOM!
A klaxon sounded and the deck lights turned red. Jared and everyone else in the corridor headed for the nearest closing bulkhead door. The Elpida was a warship and as such it had heavy blast proof bulkhead doors that would all slam shut at the mere suggestion of a hull breach. You had literally ten seconds to get through one before it crushed you or any part of you while closing.
Jared made it through the door and fell to the deck on the other side. Out of breath and with his pulse racing he sat there looking at the closed bulkhead door for a moment. Someone reached down to pull him up. It was the gray haired Peacer woman he had seen at the anti-war rally back on Elysia. Her name was Selina. Their paths had crossed a few times during training but he didn’t know her name or even which squad she was in.
“That was close, corporal.”
As he stood he said, “I was just looking outside when I saw a brilliant flash. I think it was a HOM.”
“You saw the Hit Or Miss incoming?” she sounded incredulous. 
Jarred dipped his head as a loud voice rang out in the corridor. “Hull breach, section 407 on C deck. Emergency crews enroute.”
“That’s where I,” Jared didn’t have time to finish as corpsmen ran past them with a stretcher heading through the bulkhead that he had just escaped from.
“Can’t be anything left to pick up with a stretcher if it was a hull breach,” Selina said. 
Jared grabbed her arm and urged her, “Come on, let’s go see if we can help.”
Selina didn’t resist and followed him in step to the next section of the corridor. Everyone else moved the other direction, which what they were supposed to do, in case the HOM had a delayed fuse. In which case even more people would be killed who were just loitering around watching.
The main corridor angled down and turned outward. When he came around the corner at a dead run, Jared saw what had happened and slammed on his breaks. Selina followed closely and ran into his back before laying eyes on the emergency. Several Corpsmen were pulling the still moving upper torso of a man that was cut in half by the blast doors. The deck was flooded with blood and entrails.
“Oh man, poor bastard,” she said, shaking her head.
Jared became light headed. He started sweating and looked away from the carnage.
“Did you know him?”
Jared shook his head as his knees started to wobble out of control. 
“Hey, are you okay? You’re sweating.” Selina said.
Jared’s world suddenly collapsed inward and then winked out. Selina caught him as he passed out and set him gently to the deck. “Some warrior, he faints at the first sight of blood,” she said, trying to wake him with a few slaps to his cheeks.
* * *
Major Lacithe sat quietly at his desk in the Morale Officer’s office. He was dressed in the blue and white formal uniform of the Elysian army. Even his short cropped hair was dyed a pale, Elysian blue. His skin was nearly translucent in its distinct lack of melanin. His eyes were narrow slits that hid crystal blue orbs that never missed a trick. Lacithe was responsible for the mental health and welfare of every soldier on board the Elpida. Whenever anyone showed signs of stress, or doubt about killing the enemy, Lacithe’s job was to bring them back in line.
Command relied on Lacithe to provide them with enthusiastic, healthy fodder for the continued success of the war. If a soldier could not be properly conditioned, either for ideological reasons or physical ones, it was up to Lacithe to fix them. Sometimes the fix was harsh, other times it simply needed a gentle push in the right direction.
His communication screen chirped and he opened the channel. The detached face of a nurse from the sickbay filled the screen. “Proceed,” said Lacithe.
“Corporal Jared from Alpha Squad, service number 076499-5 was treated for a fainting spell after witnessing the death of a soldier during the last HOM attack. He has no history of fainting and was released back to duty.”
Lacithe nodded curtly and said, “Thank you,” before switching off the connection and opening a surveillance camera view of Jared’s berthing area. Lacithe watched the individuals within view of the camera with one eye as he scanned all of Jared’s communications back to Elysia. There were no trigger words found for traitorous thoughts or actions. He closed that file and opened the incident report he had for every soldier. Jared’s was clean.
“So far, so good, Corporal Jared.”
* * *
Jared arrived back at the berthing area and was immediately surrounded by some of his squad mates. They were all looking at him cautiously. Concerned. Jared sat down at a table where several people were cleaning their weapons. Metallic gun pieces were spread out on cloth beds as lubricant was carefully rubbed all over them. The soldier beside Jared was sharpening his combat knife. It was matte black and had a serrated edge and a deep blood groove along the blade. 
The soldier ran the stone sharpener down the blade several times and Jared paid it little attention as he prepared his own rifle for disassembly. The stone slid off at an awkward angle and the soldier screamed as blood squirted out of his wrist. Jared backed away, his face twisted in horror. The other soldiers busted a gut laughing at him as the soldier revealed the package of catsup he had used to fake the injury.
“Very funny,” Jared said. He pretended to laugh along with everyone for a moment and then picked up the soldier’s knife and wrapped an arm around his neck. He rested the cold sharp edge of the knife against the man’s jugular. Everyone stopped laughing at him and stared wide eyes at the situation. Jared gave no indication he wouldn’t just cut the man from ear to ear. 
A nearby soldier named Edak put up his hands and approached Jared cautiously.
“Don’t do it Jared. They were just having a little fun, that’s all,” Edak pleaded.
Jared’s eyes darted around the room. Everyone was paralyzed with fear. Nobody was laughing. He pulled the knife away from the man’s neck and placed it on the table as he backed away with his hands up.
“So was I, man. Lighten up you pukes.”
Jared backed away from everyone and headed for his bunk. Edak followed him.
“The extreme always makes an impression. Just be careful man, people are watching us,” Edak whispered over his shoulder.
Jared stopped and faced the smaller man.
“You might be making an impression on the wrong man,” Edak said.
“What do you mean?”
“Your little cutlery demo will undoubtedly be reported to Lacithe. Something like that always goes against you in the long run.”
Jared looked around at the other soldiers. Everyone was going about their business and paying him no concern. 
“Are you implying that this will go on my record?”
“It already has, man. Every time you report to sickbay for anything, including a headache it goes on your record.”
“But the nurse said it wouldn’t go on my record unless it happened again.”
Edak shook his head as if Jared’s innocence was beyond belief. “Just watch yourself, man. That’s all I’m saying.”
Edak patted him on the shoulder and walked over to his own bunk.
Jared become aware that someone was staring at him. He noticed Selina looking at him from across the aisle. She winked at him and turned away. Above her he noticed for the first time the all-seeing electronic eye of a surveillance camera.
Jared climbed on top of his bunk and pulled out his reader. Another communique from home, this time a message from Trille. He opened the text and read it slowly in her voice. She told him about the harvest and how Hector had the best numbers now that Jared was gone. She told him how proud she was to have a boyfriend in the Army and fighting to protect Elysia from the horrible bug army. She told him how much she missed him and how she couldn’t wait for him to return. She ended the message with a picture of her looking at him with those doey blue eyes and loose blonde curls.  He touched her image and remembered their final night together. He missed her more than anything else from home, except for his mother’s cooking. The food in the Army was relentlessly tasteless.
________________


Chapter 7
E L P I D A




The Elpida slid along an invisible trajectory that took it to a growing ball of reflected light resting halfway between the yellow star Suth Two and the red dwarf star Suth One. The Elpida was elongated with a rotating crew module just aft the forward cannons and many solar panels deployed along its spine. Nearly a mile of metal that contained stores and munitions for the suit war on the Betweos moons. The stern of the silvery transfer ship held the glowing funnels of two nuclear powered drives. The ship bore the scars of several HOM strikes on this mission but was otherwise a clean and shimmering needle in the darkness of space.
Jared’s squad found itself in the Tactical Training Room for their first introduction to where they would be fighting. Everyone was excited to finally be getting a real tactical briefing instead of the training scenarios that always seemed phony and contrived. What they saw on the huge screens behind Stickman were actual battle plans on an actual moon of Betweos. 
Stickman was wearing his dress blue and whites and moved around his tiny stage like a big cat on the prowl. “Your first objective when we reach Betweos orbit will be to take on the last enemy holdouts on Betwi-One. You’ll be going in with the First Field Army, the illustrious Fire Starters.”
The screen changed to a giant red and white logo of twisted flames. Jared’s eyes grew wide. This was better than he had ever imagined. His grandfather was a Fire Starter and now he would be serving in the same unit. The logo faded into images of First Field Army soldiers blasting away at the enemy bugs.
“These are veteran troops with a mighty service record that goes back before most of your grandparents were born. Don’t let the prestige go to your heads. Remember your mission - Kill Bugs. All the bugs! There can’t be so much as a flicker of infra-red on that moon that is not human.”
Stickman checked his hand held pad for the latest intel and then continued.
“The attack has already started and the Fire Starters are up to their faceplates in the shit. By the time you guys go in, they’ll be mopping up. Correction. You’ll be mopping up. They’ll be heading off to the next moon and a new fight.
The images behind Stickman changed to show recent views of the surface of Betwi-One. It was a bleak, yellow and orange wasteland punctuated by sulfur volcanoes and pools of boiling acid. There were more ways to buy the farm there than just fighting the enemy. Fine sulfur dust clung to everything and got inside everything. In the black skies above hung the immense orange and white clouds of Betweos itself. Looming like some kind of ominous god over the tiny worlds locked in its grasp.
Jared noticed Saburo looking at him. The big man seemed spooked by what he saw. Jared struck a confident nod and Saburo replied with a weak gulp. 
“Two things to remember about dueling on Betwi-One: One eighth gravity and sulfur dust. With full combat loads it’s going to feel like you’re wearing pillows. Needless to say, you won’t have any difficulty getting around. In fact you’ll be wearing less armor and ammo than you’ve been training with.
“Mop and Droppers don’t need full bore shields and heavy arty. However, there will be one SAC gunner per squad. Watch you booster retros on this moon, people. Too much thrust will put your ass into orbit. If that happens you’re as good as dead. Ain’t nobody got time for that bullshit. You can’t kill bugs from up top.”
The grainy video behind him showed a soldier who had accidentally fired his retros too hard. His white and blue body rocketed into space like a bat out of hell. It would have been comical if it hadn’t really happened to some poor sap.
“Sulfur dust gets into everything and it reeks. All of your down time is going to be dedicated to cleaning your equipment. Suiter’s will not be coming with you, so get used to cleaning your own gear.
“There are four active volcanoes on Betwi-One. Helcone Major and Montare Cone are near your position. You’ll be targeting the enemy’s position on Hattes Plateau. The Entos love to hide in the smoky vents of the volcanoes. It no doubt reminds them of their own cloudy skies of Acheron. IR’s not going to work. You’ll have to rely on UV and Active Radar contacts. Remember to look sharp and shoot straight.”
The entire squad was sitting there motionless, staring at the hellish landscape on the screens. Stickman knew that look. It was the look of fear and regret. Every soldier felt it before their first drop. 
“Okay people, get the hell out of here and head over to the Entomol Lab.”
* * *
Jared was not looking forward to dissection day in the Entomol Lab. After his fainting spell he was worried he’d fall over again and it would definitely go on his medical record. He told himself over and over that they were not humans and that as far as he knew, they didn’t even bleed red. He never got queasy in Biology class at school, so he shouldn’t have to worry about six foot tall entos. 
All the members of his squad encircled a medical table in the center of the operating room. Lacithe stood before the bug corpse dressed in white scrubs that had blotches stained yellow from bug blood. There was the unmistakably horrid stench of formaldehyde coming from the body. The smell didn’t bother Jared but a few of the soldiers were holding their noses or starting to look peakid. That actually relieved Jared and made him feel less stressed. If he did pass out, he wouldn’t be alone.
“What you are about to see is the body of a male, entomol or Arachian Bug. He is about thirty years old by his star, which would make him eighteen of our years old. If you think you’re going to pass out or puke, please leave before doing either. If the soldier beside you suddenly drops, you had better catch him before he hits the floor and makes a mess in Doctor Knidos’s lab,” Lacithe said.
Everyone prepared for the worse as Lacithe grabbed the metallic cover off the body and revealed the partially dissected corpse. The bug’s outer shell was a deep purplish color with darker splotches in random patterns. Its innards were white and yellow with pools of yellow blood inside the cavity. Jared thought it looked like a cross between a praying mantis and a roach. Only much, much bigger and infinitely more disgusting than any bug he had ever seen.
The bug’s head was triangular with two large, fly-like eyes with dozens of lenses and a mandible mouth that was open to reveal several rows of teeth and a yellow tongue frozen upwards. The torso contained three segments, an upper body section a midriff with a second set of arms and a lower section with two, thicker legs. The feet and hands both had six digits and the arms and legs had short, black hairs that reminded Jared of thorns on a rose bush.
“It’s exoskeleton is discolored because he was hit with a long burst of radiation. Effectively leaving the body in tact for classroom discussion.”
Behind them, huge monitors blinked on showing the evolution of life on Acheron. All forms of life appeared on the planet in its distant past; mammals, reptiles, fish and plant life. One by one the species began to die off as their sun, Suth One began to fade.
“As you know, the earliest forms of life on Acheron were thought to be no different than what we have on Elysia. There were mammals, reptiles, fish plants and various insect species. One by one the various species began to die off as their sun, Suth One began to fade. Eventually only the insect species remained. The planet became enshrouded in acidic clouds that only the heartiest of bugs could resist.”
The other species fell off the screens and various bug species merged and evolved until there was something very similar to what lay before them on the screens.
“Out of this hellish environment came the Entosentients, the intelligent insects. The end result of this evolutionary chain is what you see before you, a human size, fully sentient bug. Whose government has been waging war with humans for over two hundred years.”
The screens went dark and everyone’s attentions fell back to the body on the metal table before them. Lacithe moved around the corpse. The harsh operating room lights from above illuminating his blue hair and casting shadows across his pale white face.
“The putrid rotting stench is what they smell like after being irradiated. If you could get a whiff of what they really smelled like, you’d all be hurling right now.”
Almost on command someone near the back heaved their lunch onto the floor. Jared looked in the direction of the sound and locked eyes with Selina. She didn't look the least bit disturbed by the body or the smell. She rolled her eyes dismissively, infuriated about something.
* * *
It wasn’t long afterwards that the Elpida started breaking for Betweos orbit. In a few short days they would be making their first combat jump. Tensions were higher than normal and many soldiers started keeping more to themselves. Jared noticed that Saburo had withdrawn a bit from his usual go-lucky self. Death was more and more on everyone’s mind. Not just their own mortality but those of their friends and squad mates. It was like an amorphous, silent stalker lurking out there in the darkness of space, waiting to take random victims. 
Many turned to their religions and were constantly attending services or mumbling mantras to ward off death or to somehow make their lives more palatable to whichever deity had the power to ward off death. Jared was never a particularly devoted disciple and didn’t spend his time alone or in the chapel. He preferred to clean his weapon and listen to his music. Like an athlete preparing for a big game, he saw himself as an invincible winner. He focused on memorizing combat formations and spent more time than the others looking at the latest intel from Betwi-One. 
When it came to maintaining his weapons, he was nothing short of anal in his attention to detail. Often pointing out mistakes others were making even as his own weapon functioned flawlessly.
“You’re doing it wrong. The bolt has to sit in the grove easily, you can’t force it,” Jared said to Selina, who was the only soldier near him.
She pulled her bolt out and wiggled it into position again. This time is went in easily. “Thanks, punk.”
Jared had removed his earphones and was wiping down his weapon. He looked over at her and watched her work for a moment. She became self conscious of his stare and looked up. “What?”
“Nothing. You’re doing fine.”
“Then mind your business,” she said. Her tone reflecting her increasing nervousness at going into battle.
Jared held up a hand and studied his own weapon. His eyes slowly went back to Selina. Her green eyes focused on assembling her weapon. She glanced over at him again and he looked away in an overly exaggerated manner.
“Are you afraid of dying on your first drop?” she asked.
He stopped trying to avoid eye contact and cracked a sideways grin.
“Heck no. I can’t wait to get down there and waste some bugs.”
She studied him this time. He went on about his business, snapping the return and then patting the rifle down with his oil soaked rag.
“Everyone’s afraid of dying, Jared.”
“Not me.”
She put down her weapon and focused on him. “Why the hell not?”
Jared set his weapon down gently. “This is all just a big adventure. I mean, the odds favor us more on this drop than any other. We’re just mopping up the leftovers. Nobody’s going to die, Selina.”
She marveled at his confidence. “I hope you’re right,” she said.
He winked at her with those pale blue eyes and confident smirk. “Ain’t nothing but a thing. Something to tell our grandkids.”
Selina shook her head and picked up her next weapon to clean. Jared had already started taking his second weapon apart. He was finished before she had removed the first section. He started brushing the carbon off the blue metal pieces with a cleaning pad.
“I only wish I knew the truth about why we’re fighting. This whole bug war crap is a facade.”
Jared stopped cleaning and looked directly at her. He brought his finger to his lips to shush her. Looking around to see if anyone overheard what she had said.
“Are you crazy?”
“No. I happen to believe in the ancient prophecies that claim the birthplace of our species is Acheron.”
Jared’s face turned to revulsion as she spoke. “You better not talk about that crap around me soldier! I plan to make something of my service and I won’t be dragged into treason by you or anyone else.”
Selina looked around suspiciously and then leaned in closer to Jared.
“Come on, aren’t you the least bit curious? Didn’t that bug corpse look fake to you? You didn’t even get squeamish.”
Jared pulled back from her. “I don’t get squeamish over dead bugs.”
Selina smiled back at him and mouthed, “Bug. Myth.”
He stood up fast, slammed his receiver down hard on the table and walked away. She looked around and shrugged to the soldiers who noticed Jared’s over dramatic exit.
* * * 
Jared had heard the rumors before about the Bug Myth. He never believed them. Just wild-eyed double speak propagated by the Anti-War camp. There was no evidence to back it up. None. 
He wouldn’t have given it much thought again if it wasn’t for who had said it. There was something about Selina; he just couldn’t get her out of his head. She wasn’t particularly beautiful or an amazing soldier. Maybe it was her ashen eyes, they were lighter and more mysterious than any he had ever seen before. When she looked at him he could feel her stare penetrate to his bones. It was a bit unnerving but he liked it.
Maybe it was her prematurely gray hair that had hints of violet in it under the flourescent light of the ship. He had never seen anyone with hair as gray as hers who was essentially the same age as him. She was both exotic and intriguing at the same time. She’s a temptress! Out to convert me to her treasonous ways. He knew that he should avoid her if he was going to keep his wick and his soul clean from her wicked influence. Still, she was there and he was only human. His mind could reason all kinds of ways to break his vows to Trille. She would never find out about his lapse in loyalty because there was a good chance Selina would die in combat or he would. They might all die. 
That’s when the nervous twitching started to show itself in his right hand. He didn’t notice it then, but others around him did, and they all wrote it off as pre-battle nerves. But Jared was not nervous about fighting, or the possibility of losing his life. He was nervous about losing his faith to the girl he loved back home. Throwing away the trust and faith placed in him by Trille for the easy, traitorous ways of the silver haired witch.
In the days leading up to their first drop he distanced himself from Selina. She noticed, but he didn’t care. He had to focus on the coming battle and get his mind in the game again. Not let his libedo drive his actions and get him into trouble. He stayed in the simulation rooms longer and buddied up to Saburo more. Which kept his mind off of her lovely eyes and her other delicious assets.
Coming out of the mess hall the night before their drop she pushed him into an empty training room and shut the hatch behind her. He was cornered. Her bright eyes drilling into his chest, penetrating his heart.
“Why the hell have you been ignoring me lately?”
Jared mumbled something that she didn’t understand.
“What?”
He turned away from her eyes and moved as far away from her as he could like some kind of trapped animal.
“Look, I don’t have time for this. We drop tomorrow and I have to keep my mind clear and sharp?”
“What the hell does that mean?” she pressed.
His hand tapped his leg and the motion drew her eyes. “What’s up with the hand tapping?”
He looked down at his hand and noticed it for the first time.
“I, I’m just nervous, alright?”
“What? You nervous? Are you fucking kidding me? You don’t get nervous about fighting or dying.”
He watched her slowly move closer to him, concern etched on her elfin face. “I think we better take you to the infirmary, you might be sick or something.”
Jared laughed off the comment.
“Look, I’ve been thinking about what you said. About the war not being legit. I don’t believe you. I think you’re trying to mess with my head or something and I won’t have it.”
Her expression turned to pity as she shook her head slowly.
“Look, I was fucking with you. Forget it, alright? Just go out there tomorrow and blast away at them damn bugs like they’re roaches. Don’t worry yourself about whether you’re actually killing men in mechanical suits.”
Her sarcasm hit home and he started to stand up straighter. His hand stopped shaking. This was not about him and her. This was about her stupid theory, not anything she felt for him.
He reached out and pushed her away from him as he headed out of the room. The heavy blast hatch slammed shut behind him signaling his freedom. Bring on the damn Bug Army. I’m ready for them.
________________






Chapter 8


E L P I D A


Drop day had finally arrived. Everyone in his platoon was abnormally quiet and withdrawn, as if they were contemplating the meaning of life before it was ripped from them like the flower of youth. Not Jared. He was focused and filled with barely contained anticipation. This was the day he’d been dreaming about ever since he was a kid, reenacting the battlefield heroics of his grandfather in the dirt and mud of the corn fields. He vividly remembered the wooden gun he carried and the ice covered puddles between the rows of plowed under stalks that cracked when he jumped on them. Crushing the ice like the carapaces of enemy bug soldiers under his leather work boots.
Today he would become a battle hardened Army veteran, defending Elysia from the horrid Bug Army of Acheron. Today he would test his ability against the best that the enemy could throw at him and defeat them. Today would be a day long remembered by the leaders of both armies. It would be the day that Jared the Great entered the war and changed the outcome, forever.
They were all suited up and encased inside the launch tubes that would jettison them down to the surface of Betwi-One. The drop room was dark. The only light came from Stickman’s helmet as he spot checked every man and woman before they were dropped. The twin beams of red light bathed the inside of the clear tube when Hacker stood before a soldier, chewing the wet stump of his unlit cigar.
As he waited to be checked, Jared’s eyes scanned the virtual instruments projected against the inside of his faceplate. His pulse was up, but not too high. His core temperature was slightly down but he didn’t feel cold. Life support indicators were green. Ammunition was full and all weapons were green. Incoming data from the surface battle were updating his maps on troop strength and enemy positions.
Jared could see Stickman move in front of Selina and listened to their exchange over the sound of his own breathing. He was reminding her to keep her weapon barrel down in the low gravity, something he told every soldier and thus they all heard multiple times. She responded with a clear affirmative in her clipped manner that he found so irritating yet so enticing at the same time.
Stickman moved down the line to Saburo who was right beside Jared. Saburo was clearly nervous as the Polit Officer gave him the visual once over. Jared could hear his friend’s heavy breathing as clearly as he weren’t encased in composite armour plating. 
“Relax soldier, you’re about to get your first kill. Don’t forget to savor the moment.”
Saburo responded with a quivering voice followed by a forced sigh. Jared smiled to himself. He didn’t expect the big man to be so scared. He performed brilliantly in all the combat training they endured together.
Stickman’s dual red lamps flashed in Jared’s eyes as he stood over him. Jared avoided staring into the light but couldn’t quite see the man’s dark eyes behind layers of clear armour.
“Take charge, Private Jared. Get these people into the entrance and don’t let them linger outside and get wasted. Copy?”
“Hooah, sir.”
Stickman pressed his face closer so that Jared could see him. He sucked in his cigar butt and chewed it a few times before swallowing it. “Get some, kid. I can’t wait to read your AFR.”
Jared’s lower lip flexed into a grim smile. Stickman’s dark eyes grinned as he growled like some kind of animal, before moving on. Oh, please let’s just drop now, dammit!
        The Elpida rotated and lurched a few times as they came closer to the moon. Warning messages flashed across Jared’s helmet screens. The ship was taking heavy enemy fire as it maneuvered into position to eject them.
Stickman finished his squad review and took hold of a loose strap against the gray walls of the drop room. He would not be going with them. Their leader, Alex would. She was in the last group to punch out. Until she arrived on target Jared would be in charge. It was a great honor for him to be in command, even for so short a time. He trembled slightly with anticipation. Let’s get this show on the road!
* * *
Jared’s mind had drifted in the interminable time that it took to position the ship for their launch. He thought of Selina and her pale eyes and they morphed into the ice blue eyes of his girlfriend, Trille. He had forgotten how stunning her eyes were. How much they looked like the color of the Elysian flag. The sweet cinnamon taste of her of her breath. The way she squealed when she came and dug her nails into his back. Hell, I can’t drop with a boner!
That’s when the bottom dropped out and he was shot feet first into the fiery skies over Betwi-One. The pod he was in shook violently from nearby flak explosions. The outside temperature became blindingly hot as the pod burned away and his reentry streamer exploded above his head. He could see the curvature of the moon and the thin, useless atmosphere glisten as he augured his way to the red, lava streams below.
The suit retro rockets kicked in, slowing him enough to prevent his legs from breaking when he slammed into the hard, lava bedrock of the surface. They didn’t prevent him from rolling over and sliding to a stop into a yellow sulfur sand pile at the drop zone. Breathing hard from the thrill ride, he lay flat on his back staring up at the sky from where he had fallen. The thin clouds did little to block out the stars of space and the massive form of Betweos that dominated the sky.
He grabbed the ground, feeling like he would fall into the swirling orange and white clouds of the gas giant. But he did not fall. He was at the mercy of the slightly lower gravity of the first moon. Black clouds from exploding shells dotted the sky with inky blots. Static bursts flooded his ears with the sounds of battle and suddenly he was back in the fight.
Someone offered him a gloved hand and he took it, bouncing upright with no effort at all. It was Edak. “C’mon, the entrance is that way,” he pointed to a black crevice in the nearest rocky outcrop.
Jared hoisted his rifle up and followed Edak. Others landed around them and skid across the ground in a haphazard manner. They ran to the new arrivals and helped them up. Jared reached down and pulled up Saburo. He was grimacing from pain but he didn’t see where he was hit.
“Are you alright?” he asked.
He pushed off and started bounding for the entrance to the lava cave. Jared glanced back and saw the rest of his platoon falling like metal hail. Many of them were chewed up by the flak and fell in smaller pieces. For a moment it rained glittery shards of metal and bloody body parts. 
Under the cover of the cave many of them looked back out where they had come and saw only one other soldier running across the graveyard. It was Bree. Jared recognized her gait and her ammo load. She slid into the cave in a cloud of sulfur dust as a shell hit behind her.
The four of them, Saburo, Edak, Bree and Jared spread out and activated their IR scanners. Inside Jared’s helmet the terrain took on an eerie red and black glow and he could see further into the dark recesses of the cavern. It was a lava tube big enough to walk through.
“Targets acquired, four marks ahead,” Edak said with a grimace. “Time to Play.”
He headed off down the tube, her plasma rifle at the ready, sweeping the area. Jared waved for Saburo to follow and then Bree. He took up the rear with a casual glance across the landing zone for any stragglers. It was quiet as a graveyard.
Edak and Saburo had already rounded a bend out of sight when Jared heard them engaging the enemy in gunfire. The only sound came from their intercom traffic filled with excited commands and flashes of brilliant light from their weapons. 
“Get down!”
“I got one!”
“Two more on the left.”
By the time Bree and Jared rounded the curve the show was over. Edak was down and Saburo was hovering over the inert body. Bree took a position ahead of them, searching for new enemy targets. 
Saburo motioned to their dead comrade, “They nailed him before I could see them. But it looks like he took one of them with him.”
Jared patted his friend on the back. “We’ll come back for him. Right now we have to keep moving.”
Saburo hoisted his rifle and they continued down the lava tube. After a few meters the tube opened up to the bright outside light. Pointing their rifles up, looking for contacts they edged around the hole and continued down the tube. It started to descend and fresh lava ran off to their left, segmenting as it hardened.
“Multiple contacts ahead. Not sure who,” Saburo said.
“Make sure they’re not ours. We’re supposed to be relieving the First.”
Bree was on point and she turned back to look at Saburo for a split second. That was all the enemy bug needed to laze off her head and shoulder area with a green plasma beam.
Jared saw it happen and felt his anger rising as he charged his rifle and opened up on several four-armed soldiers moving nearby. Plasma bolts criss crossed the narrow lava tube for what seemed like forever until Jared was knocked backwards by concussion grenades. Saburo returned fire above him, giving him cover as Jared gathered his head and scrambled up. He could hear noise over his comm but couldn’t make any sense of it. His ears still ringing like bells in a choir. 
Saburo pointed off to the right and Jared saw several muzzle flashes. Lava rock exploded above them raining shiny black splinters down on them.  They had to move or they would be buried alive. 
Jared activated his thrusters and shot out ahead, his helmet scraping the top of the tube. He fired down on the gray armored bugs taking them out. His rifle jammed open and the resulting concentration of fire blew out the side of the lava tube and opened up a new tunnel before he slammed into the hard wall of the tube. He never felt it when he hit the ground, he was already out cold. 
* * *
When he came to, he slowly focused on the mission elapsed time. Only a few minutes had passed. Good, hopefully I didn’t miss much. That was pretty stupid.
His ears were still ringing but he was able to understand comm traffic. He brushed off shards of lava rock and got to his feet. New contacts registered on his screens ahead. He checked his rifle and saw that it was drained. He must have expended the whole power pack when it had jammed. 
Saburo came to his side and watched as Jared reloaded.
“That was fucking awesome man! You took out that group and blasted a hole in the tube. I think we’ve caught the buggers by surprise.”
Jared motioned down the new tube with his rifle. “More contacts that way.”
Saburo took point and several other Elysian troopers moved past. Where they had come from Jared had no idea but he was glad to have their firepower. He filed in last in line and checked back to see the broken bodies of the bugs he had destroyed. They were melted into the rock and metal in a steaming pile of charred debris. Their amber blood splattered all over their armor and the black lava ground. He noticed what he thought was a femur bone sticking out of one of the bug’s legs. He blinked a bead of sweat and refocused. Surely that was part of the exoskeleton. Before he could refocus on it his attention was thwarted by renewed fighting.
Saburo and the others had opened fire again on more bug soldiers. By the time Jared made it up to them their newly acquired SAC (Squad, Automatic, Cannon) gunner had taken a full frontal hit by enemy fire. He staggered back wards into Jared’s arms, stunned by the impacts.
“He’s taken a beating, his armor is depleted,” a familiar voice said. It was Selina. Jared hadn’t noticed her pass him before. He hoisted the man back up and shook his head to clear it. 
“I’m alright, just startled me is all. I still have as many layers as you guys,” the gunner said. His name plate read Jamis.
“He’s right, plus we need his firepower,” Gaven stated, letting the man go back into position. Seline stared coldly at him as he passed. 
The group of five Elysian soldiers pressed on down the newly discovered lava tube tunnel for a few more klics before Jared began seeing light up ahead. He tapped another soldier for tail and moved forward past Selina and SAC gunner to where Saburo was.
“Targets ahead, but I think they’re friendlies,” Saburo offered.
Jared analyzed his screens and came to the same conclusion. He hadn’t seen friendly signals since they had landed. Nothing but the red and gray enemy signals from the moment they cleared the landing zone.
A low lying sulfur mist blew in from just ahead of them. Saburo and Jared exchanged concerned looks. It wasn’t from weapons fire, must be from the planet’s active veins. They pressed on, weapons at the ready.
The lava tube opened up into a huge cavern big enough to house a platoon or more of soldiers. The helmet lights on their suits would not have provided enough light to see the whole cavern. Light carts from the Elysian Army were placed all around the cavern pointing up to bounce their light down on the dozen or so battle scarred Fire Starter troops. 
Their blue and gray armor was pock marked with blast and dusted with sulfur. Paint was worn off metal armor where it touched or rubbed and smoke drifted out their helmets like condensing steam on a hot, runner’s head. These were the best of the best in the Elysian army. Jared and Saburo could only stare in awe at them. They had survived countless days in the shit and were still ready and willing to dish it out.
A seasoned LT approached them. Jared had to force himself not to salute in a combat zone. The man put a hand on Jared’s shoulder armor. 
“Are you our replacements?” he asked. His voice couldn’t hide his amusement.
“Yes, sir! Echo squad, fourth platoon,” Jared answered.
The LT shook his sweaty and bearded face inside his helmet. He had dark patches under his weary eyes, probably hadn’t slept for more than ten minutes at a time in a week.
“Congratulations, you’re the first to make it in.”
Jared and Saburo exchanged astonished looks. Over fifty soldiers were dropped and they were the first to arrive? Jared started to wonder if anyone else would show.
“Power’s over there, pull up a rock and get your gear cleaned. More from your platoon should be here shortly. At least I hope so, for your sake.”
The LT grimaced and moved back to his own group of soldiers. Jared waved the others over to the power hookups. He counted six of them. Six. Not even a full squad.
“He didn’t even ask what happened to our sergeant,” Jared noted.
“Like he cares. You’ll probably get a promotion. You’re the highest ranking now,” Saburo said.
Selina approached and stopped, giving Jared the eye. He smirked at her and said, “Any confirmed kills, Private?”
“Three, Corporal. Yourself?”
“Five, I think. Lost count myself.”
Saburo laughed. “I’ve got eight.”
Both Selina and Jared shook their heads as Saburo motioned for them to look back the way they had come. Four new stragglers were walking in, looking up in amazement at the expansive cavern.
“Damn, that can’t be everyone?” Jared asked, rhetorically.
Each of them had a different colored arm band indicating they were all from different squads of Fourth Platoon. Not an NCO among them either. Just another bunch of privates, stranded by the confusion of war.
“So much for the easy Mop and Drop mission.”
“Down on the moons, the survival rate is two days,” Saburo said, quoting  the recruiter they had med at the departure point on Elysia. 
“Guess he was right afterall.”
Jared welcomed the new guys over with a wave. A dark eyed woman whose nameplate read Geena noticed his rank and addressed Jared. “It was a slaughter back there. We thought we were the only ones to make it down alive.”
“Fall in with our squad, Corporal. Anyone else behind you?”
She shook her head inside her helmet. “We got pinned down outside and they cut our squads to pieces. Dammed slaughter out there.”
Jared nodded in agreement with her. He could see in her eyes that she was ready for some retribution. He knew exactly what that felt like after he saw Bree lose her head. He didn’t expect to have such intense emotions in battle. It was far more than a simple rush of adrenaline like a simulation or even a game. It was for real. He was beginning to see why veterans didn’t talk much about the war. 
“You’ve done good, Geena. Join up with us over at the power pods.”






Chapter 9


B E T W I - O N E


The Lieutenant from the Fire Starters came over to Jared and pulled him away to join a group of his NCOs. Jared noticed the LT’s name this time - Bekk. 
“Switch to command frequency,” Bekk said, tersely.
Jared obliged by turning a selector on his wrist controls. He had never been on Command before, it was usually scrambled. Bekk’s voice was clearer, as if he really were standing beside him instead of speaking over a comm.
“Son, looks like this is it for your platoon. We can’t wait any longer for more stragglers, our ride’s on the way down.”
Jared nodded, then replied with an affirmation, “Yes, sir.” 
“I’m giving you a battlefield promotion. Sergeant Miles, may I have your stripes please?”
A haggard Staff Sergeant took off his metal chevrons and handing them over to the Bekk. The grizzled veteran didn’t look too happy about it but remained silent.
“We don’t have any Buck Sergeants, so this will have to do.”
He removed Jared’s metal two stripes and replaced them with four. Jared wanted so badly to salute again, but resisted the urge. Bekk shook his hand and let slip a nod of approval. Then his face got serious again, dark eyebrows narrowing.
“Another platoon is on its way down. Dam Victory Squads. You're in charge until they get here, Sergeant. Think you can handle it?”
Jared replied with a straight face, although inside he was screaming with joy. 
“Yes, sir.”
“Good. I’ve declared this area cold. No enemy contacts have been made since you got here. That is all, Sergeant.”
Jared nodded and walked back to his platoon to do a quick head count. There were eight of them left from a platoon of forty. He really had thought the war was going better than that. Then he recalled something Alex had said during their training. “You’ll hear one thing from Command and you’ll learn the opposite is true from where you sit on the battlefield. Just trust your Command and don’t question them.” 
“They gave you Staff Sergeant?” Saburo said, noticing his friend’s new hardware the minute he walked up.
“It’s all they had. I’m in charge until the next platoon gets here. The Fire Starters are moving out. This area has been declared cold. Geena, Selina and Hatch will pull sentry duty. Everyone else clean up and recharge your weapons.”
Selina spoke up. “What about the MIA’s? Someone should try and find any survivors.”
Jared frowned. She was always concerned more about her people than killing the enemy. A Peacer out of place.
“I’ll go,” Saburo said, standing up and charging his rifle.
Jared looked at his friend for a moment. He wanted to go with him but now that he was in command, he couldn’t just go run off with his buddies anymore. Was this the burden of command?
“Okay, Saburo. But take a battle buddy with you and report back every ten mike.”
Saburo taped Blake’s shoulder and the two of them headed out the way they had come. Jared sat down at the power cells and plugged in. The newest members of his newly formed “platoon” moved in to talk over the comm. All of them were young and had their name plates clearly visible.
“Some war, eh?” Lane asked. He looked like he was fourteen.
“Not what I expected, that’s for sure,” Jared replied.
“Me neither, especially for a Mop and Drop.”
Another soldier sat looking forward with a dark expression on his face. “I like it here,” he said to nobody.
Everyone turned to look at him but he didn’t react to them. Just kept staring ahead at the black lava wall. Jared thought the kid looked way older than his apparent age. Combat tended to age people, but this guy had only been in the shit for a few hours. Maybe he was just incredibly focused, or a psychopath. 
A scream blasted over the comm lines, startling everyone. Jared stood up, releasing his rifle from the charger and turning around.
“What’s happening? Sentries, report!”
Bree was the first to check in, fear tinged her voice. “It’s not us, Sarg.”
“Bree, pull back from your perimeter.”
“Afrim.”
Jared yanked out his portable scanner and pointed it in the direction that Saburo and Blake had gone. “Saburo, Blake. Report in.”
Hearing nothing but static in return, Jared pointed to the nearest soldier. “Naga, take point. Let’s go.” Naga armed his rifle and started down the path where Saburo and his buddy had gone. 
“What about the other sentries, they’re not back yet?” Suz asked, looking back at the power generators and light carts.
Before Jared’s group could leave the sentries returned. He waved for them to stay at the base camp. Jared paired up Naga and Bree then took Suz with him to form two groups of two when they came across a lava vein that had split into two tunnels.
Naga flooded the tunnel with his IR spot light. Nothing but dead bug soldiers and debris. They continued onward.
“Saburo, Blake. Report.”
“I thought this place was cold?” Suz whined. 
“Quiet!” Jared snapped over the comm.
Naga brought up an arm stopping them in their tracks. Then he waved Jared up. Lying on the ground a few meters ahead was a wounded Elysian soldier. 
“Is it one of them?” Jared asked, his visor picking an inopportune time to fog up. 
Naga shook his helmet. “No, it’s our squad leader.” He crouched a bit and moved forward to help the wounded sergeant. Jared followed at a few paces, continuing to use his hand scanner.
“Suz, report.”
“Nothing but dead bugs down here, Sarg.”
“Okay, cut back and join us.”
“Copy.”
The other two soldiers trace back to the split and come up behind Jared. Suz immediately pulled out her medkit and plugs it into the man’s suit. Lane brought up the rear.
“Bree, we’ve found Second Squad’s leader. No sign of our people.”
“Copy. All clear back at camp,” her voice sounded further away than she actually was.
“How bad is it?” Jared asked, looking down at Sergeant Tavers.
“He’s low on oh-two and suffering from internal injuries. We have to get him pulled out or he’s not going to make it,” Suz replied, looking up at Jared.
Call for an evac or wait until the reinforcements arrive? Jared took a knee and looked into the faceplate of the unconscious man. If it were him, he’d want to be saved at all costs. But that could seriously jeopardize the mission for just one man. His first big command decision was a life or death one. Not what he expected. 
Jared looked up at Naga, silently hovering above them.
“Can you drag him back to camp?”
The man nodded slowly, as if he didn’t agree it was the right course of action. But Jared didn’t ask for his opinion and the man didn’t give it. “Yes.”
Jared turned to Suz, “Go with him. Call for an evac on side band when you get back to camp.”
Jared stood back as Naga carefully hoisted the wounded man onto his back and Suz took their rifles. They lumbered back down the tunnel towards camp.
“Lane, this way,” Jared said, heading off down the darkened tunnel. It was littered with the corpses of bug soldiers. Their insides burned to white ash from Elysian weapons fire. 
“Saburo, Blake. Report.”
Nothing. Lane moved over to peer inside an open room of some kind. It was darker than space inside. He flipped on his flood and gasped out loud.
“Sarg, I found them.”
Jared come over to Lane who prevented him from looking inside. 
“They’re diced, man. Don’t even look.”
Jared eyed Lane for a moment and then took in the carnage. Both soldiers had been sheared into multiple pieces by high intensity lasers. The room was empty but there were smoking, short muzzle barrels all over the walls. It was some kind of booby trap. Saburo and Blake must have set it off upon entering the room. It was hard to see his friend like that. They never had a chance. Jared fought back tears as he stared hard at the scene. He didn’t want to forget the image, as horrible as it was. Finally he pulled Lane back away from the entrance.
“Bree, we’ve found them. They’re dead. Nobody go into any storage rooms, understand?”
There was a long pause and then Bree responded. “Affirmative.”
* * *
The gray evac shuttle lifted off from the surface of Betwi-One with the wounded sergeant. Jared watched it’s rockets flower with white light as it rose. The skies were clear of all the flak and incoming fire from the last time he was on the surface. Nothing but the spray of distant volcanic eruptions to mare the view of the Betweos, dominating the northern horizon. There was more beauty here than Jared expected from a battlefield. 
His platoon was milling around together, getting worked over by suitors from the recently landed Mop and Drop troops. All shiny and new in their white and powder blue suits, they flooded the area with fresh meat. All Jared could think of is how easily it would be to take them all out with a tactical nuke or a few well placed incendiary rounds. He was starting to think like a soldier now. Everything was a possible ambush or tactical advantage should a fight break out.
A shiny new LT came bounding up to him full of life and enthusiasm that Jared used to have himself, not hours before.
“Are you Sergeant Jared?”
“Yes, sir.” The man was actually smiling as he spoke. Eyes bright with excitement. All Jared could do was stare in stunned fascination at him.
“Your people are cleared for the next ride back up. Lieutenant Bekk, First Platoon, First Field Army has requested that your squad be transferred to his unit. First in, last out, eh?”
Jared didn’t react to the news, just stared off at the surrounding ridgeline behind the man. “Congratulations! Nobody gets into the First Army without making a huge impression on their leaders. Seems like your squad rescued them from entrapment down there.”
Jared looked back at the man, bewilderment awash on his face.
“Guess you’ll be going down with them to the second moon. Good luck sergeant, you’re going to need it.”
The LT patted his shoulder and bounced off to take command of his own people. Jared stared up at the orange clouds of Betweos on the horizon. For the first time in his short career as a soldier, he didn’t feel much like fighting.


________________






Chapter 10


B E T W I  -  T W O


Graul Outpost was the biggest Acheron stronghold on Betwi-Two; a sprawling regolith wasteland of trenches and fortifications protecting an underground bunker that contained the command center. One of the oldest battlegrounds of the war, it was currently owned and defended by the 404th Armoured Dragoons, Acheron Army. The dead moon’s surface was potted with millions of man made craters from battles buried on top of battles for ages. More soldiers gave their lives on the dusty plains than on any other moon of Betweos. It was a high honor to be chosen to defend it. At least that’s what they told Gaven.
It meant nothing at all to Gaven, just another barren moon where people died for a government that didn’t care about them. All he cared about were his squad mates and himself. Lately though, more himself than anyone else. Except for Shen, and maybe Slik. But they were in his tribe before they were in his squad. So his loyalty to them exceeded anyone else or anything else.
Hacker knew this about him. The Polit Officer made sure Gaven was promoted faster than anyone else just so that he would be in charge. The man was more observant than Gaven had given him credit for. Hacker was able to figure out that people followed Gaven regardless of orders. Which made Gaven start to distance himself emotionally from nearly everyone. Unfortunately, it was his job to care about everyone else when he was in charge. Fucking Hacker.
Gaven was wearing his standard four-armed battle suit with added trench armor plating. The suit was painted regolith gray with dark gray mottling across the top of his torso, upper arms and back. The twin oval sensor “eyes” of the helmet were matte black except where the paint was chipped. Two metal comm antennas sprouted off his shoulders and were tied off onto eyelets on his back. Extra ammunition packs were shoved into racks above his secondary arms. He looked like an armored beetle. 
Inside his helmet was a virtual command center of controls and screens that he used his thoughts to navigate through. Currently he wasn’t thinking about anything in particular, just staring at the gray flats stretching out for kilometers to the small moon’s horizon. He couldn’t see Betweos from this direction which faced the coming shadow of the terminator. Stars beyond the system shined like jewels sprinkled randomly across the black velvet of space. Peaceful and calming. He was supposed to be watching for an expected enemy attack. But that seemed remote and somehow irrelevant compared to the majesty of the universe.
A burst of static over his comms snapped him back to reality.
“Second Squad, run the line,” a dispassionate voice uttered.
“Second, copy.”
Time to babysit again. He pushed off the ledge he was propped up on and walked down the earthen walls of the trench. Acheron soldiers were lined up facing outward, their weapons pointing at the horizon. Waiting. It was his job to make sure they were awake and ready to fight.
He didn’t need to walk the line to check on them. He could have just looked at their status on his screens but he preferred to move around rather than stay in one position. Besides, moving helped keep him awake and alert.
The first soldier he came to was Jade. She was smaller than anyone else in the squad but probably the meanest one per pound. As she constantly reminded anyone who would listen, “Size doesn’t matter when you’re wearing a battle suit.” Gaven had to reach up to tap her right leg. She turned her suit to look down at him.
“You okay?” Gaven asked.
“Bring ‘em on, sarg,” she replied in her gravelly voice.
Gaven moved past her to the next person less than a meter away. It was Kate and she turned around completely to face him as if she wanted to talk. Even inside battle armor people moved like they have always done. When they looked at another suited soldier they saw a live image of that soldier’s face on their monitors. Instead of the expressionless, black “eyes” of the helmet sensors.
“Problem, Kate?”
“My heater is below nominal levels.”
Her voice sounded more concerned than she probably wanted to reflect. Gaven pulled out a plug from his suit that trailed a wire and stuck into a socket on the back of Kate’s suit. Data started streaming in from her suit’s diagnostic program. He read through the logs until he sussed out the situation.
“It’s okay for now, we’re rotating into view of Suth One shortly, it won’t be a problem then.”
She gave him a thumbs up and turned back around to pick up her rifle. Gaven continued on down the trench, patting folks on the back and getting their status. Everyone was doing fine, just waiting for something to happen. Anything. Waiting was probably the number one fear of any soldier. You waited to go into action then you waited to see if you would die or not and then you waited to get back to the barracks. Where you again waited to go into action on the next duty cycle.
He stopped when he came upon Slik’s suit. Gaven pulled himself up onto the ledge to stand beside his friend. It was weird seeing his friend’s face indirectly on the helmet screens, but he could hear Slik’s uneven breathing in his earphones and was reassured by his presence. 
“Just like back home, waiting for the RUT patrols,” Slik said.
“I wish we had Grim’s early warning.”
“No kidding.”
After a few minutes of silence Slik spoke again. His voice was reverent. “Man I love the stars. I could stare at them for hours.”
Gaven slapped his friend’s shoulder and climbed back down. “Stay sharp, pal.”
Slik huffed and muttered, “Right.”
The last two members of his squad were the cannon operator’s Shen and Prome. She was closest to Gaven, wrapped in the clutches of the firing mechanism. Prome sat up higher and more exposed to enemy fire. He was the target acquisition man for the powerful weapon. Fat pipes feeding energy from below the trench snaked up the wall of the trench between the two soldiers. They wore a less armored version of the combat suit.
“You two doing all right down here?”
“Never better,” Shen replied. 
“Let’s get it on. This waiting’s bullshit,” Prome said.
Gaven wanted to say something in private to Shen, but he couldn’t do that in the suit. If he did everyone would hear him, including leadership. So he held his metal mitten out to her and she placed hers in a gentle clasp. Every battle was another chance that one or both of them would die. It had become their custom to lock hands for luck. They could see each other’s faces through their internal suit cameras inside their helmets. Shen’s grainy, red tinted image looked sad but strong to him. As Gaven retracted his hand he started getting a situational report across his screens. “Standby, I’m getting a SITREP.”
When the report finished he called in his status on the command frequency. “Squad Two, good to go.”
“Copy. Stand too!” came the terse reply.
Gaven started hustling back down the line to get to his position. He switched back to his squad comm channel as he ran. “Enemy dropships have been detected. Condition Red, attack imminent. Fire on contact.”
The moon slowly rotated causing the darkness to fall away over his head. By the time he got back up on his ledge he could see the shadow receding across the cratered battlefield. Enemy drop troops were revealed by the daylight as they fell towards the trenches glittering in the light of the suns. Time to die.
* * *
Silvery specks rained down from the stars as if the sky were falling. Flak guns opened up from behind the trenches illuminating the darkness with expanding shards of blue and red. Glittering chaff sprayed out from behind the incoming Elysian soldiers as they fell, sending Acheron missiles awry. The carnage was a beautiful and deadly spectacle. It mesmerized Gaven as his screens produced a lag that slowed down the action to the point where it looked surreal.
Red and green bolts of energy pierced the darkness from the horizon even before his helmet sensors could pick out the ghostly bodies of emerging enemy soldiers. Some elements of the Acheron Army began returning fire, even before they are able to identify individual targets. It happened during every battle, people would get itchy to shoot something and just open fire without a clear target. Gaven’s sq        uad were veterans though and they held their fire until the infra red plumes showed themselves.
All hell broke loose and the battle began. Explosions lit the trenches up as equipment and personnel were blown into the airless skies, some of which never returned to the dusty gray battlefield. The second moon wasn’t very big and it was not unusual for debris to get blasted into orbit during the fighting.
The attacking Elysian troops are mowed down by heavy guns like the one Shen operated. Nobody gets close to the lines and it appears the battle may end sooner than anyone expected. A lul spreads across the barren field. 
Not a single Elysian soldier made it to the barriers erected fifty meters from the trenches. Nothing was able to stop the enemy soldiers from getting through the earthen and metal barriers, they were just supposed to slow them down while Acheron artillery locked onto them and cut them to pieces. 
Gaven cycled through the various sensors until he got a clear view of the damage. The battlefield was filled with smoldering corpses of blue and white armored enemy soldiers. What a fucking waste. It’s like the enemy has more soldiers than sense. He zoomed out his cameras and panned back and forth slowly across the devastation. Body counts started scrolling in across his screens. It was less than a hundred dead and they were scattered about the barriers none of them close enough to even see with a naked eye. Gaven picked up his rifle and checked the charge. He was still nearly full. 
While his attention was averted the distant horizon erupted in a blinding light as bright as day. The barriers were blown up en masse in a spectacular demonstration of firepower that Gaven had never witnessed before. He stared in stupefied horror as the enemy poured through the falling debris in a solid wave of blue and white armored soldiers that swarmed towards the first row of trenches like the water from a broken dam. 
“Second Squad, dueling positions!” Gaven hollered into his comms.
* * *
The second wave of blue armored troops completely overwhelmed the first row of defensive Acheron positions. It was a slaughter. Gaven estimated about forty soldiers lost their lives in a matter of minutes. And now the enemy was just fifty yards away from his trench. His primary mission was to hold his line. Don’t let any enemy forces overrun your position and get a foothold on Betwi-Two.
The soldiers in the first trench had failed and now the enemy had a stronghold from which to launch attacks at Graul Outpost. It was his job to hold them and if he could find a way, take them out before more enemy troops flooded the battlefield.
“Everyone, we have to hold them here, reinforcements are not coming in until tomorrow,” Gaven ordered.
He could hear the disgruntled replies from just about every soldier in his squad. Finally Slik’s voice rose above the static. “We ain’t going to last that long, Gaven. They outnumber us and outgun us at this point. Whatever we’re going to do we better do it fast.”
There was every reason to believe that the enemy would regroup and then attack again. He only had a few minutes to get ready. Gaven jumped off his wall and ran back down to the end of his line. He issued a command while running, “Don’t shoot until they get out of the trench. Repeat, don’t engage until they charge. Slik, meet me at Shen’s position.”
He got positive replies from everyone over the inter-suit communications net as he got to Shen’s position just after Slik. She turned to look at them as Gaven started removing the access panels around her power lines. The lines moved in two directions, backward to the command post and forward to the trench that was just overrun. The access tunnel was smaller than a fully armored trench trooper and dark.
“Shen, Prome, get down here. Slik, start taking off your extra armor.”
Gaven started taking Slik’s trench armor off. Another trooper named Trent helped Gaven remove Slik’s armour plating. It was obvious to Slik and Shen what they were going to attempt, they had been expert trench fighters on the surface of Acheron. Gaven explained his plan so everyone was on the same page.
“We’re going to launch an offensive using the power tunnel. Slik and I will head in and split down the trench once we breach them. After that, we exact revenge.” Everyone did what they could to hasten the action along. The plan was audacious and would probably get them all killed, but it beat sitting there waiting to be attacked.
“The tunnels are new since the last attack, so we’ll probably catch them off guard,” Slik added with enthusiasm. Gaven could tell he loved the plan.
“Get me next,” Gaven ordered. Trent and Slik both removed Gaven’s added armor as Shen and Prome joined them at the entrance to the maintenance tunnel.
Prome was a big man, almost a head taller than Shen so he went after Slik with Shen bringing up the rear. She attached more ammo to her exoskeleton frame and took out her trench rifle.
Gaven switched to the command channel. “Control, we need suppressive fire in ten mike. Flood the area.”
There was a quick response from Control. “Copy that.”
Gaven turned on his floods, illuminating the dark, narrow tunnel. Then he headed inside, ducking in a crouch. Slik charged his rifle and ducked in after Gaven. Trent handed Prome a couple of extra shock grenades. Prome took them and waved a mock salute at the man. Then he ducked into the narrow tunnel with Shen bringing up the rear.
* * *
Gaven reached the forward trench access doors and stopped. He turned back to see the others come to a stop behind him. They were shadows in a dark tunnel, backlit by each other’s floods. He faced the panel again and scanned the area behind the doors. Two human shaped IR signatures betrayed the enemy positions. He glanced at his chronograph readout and waited patiently for Control’s attack. 
The ground began to shake and bits of regolith fell from the ceiling of the tunnel. Gaven held up his hand for a moment and then dropped it forward. Grabbing his rifle he blasted his way through the thin metal panels and pushed out into the trench. He moved to his immediate right and Slik moved left as he exited on Gaven’s heels. Enemy troops are startled and don’t even return fire in the first few seconds. Gaven blasted away at anything moving, his secondary arms lobbing concussion grenades as he moved forward.
Prome exited the tunnel and followed Slik, shooting his pulse rifle in a continuous stream of death. Shen exited the tunnel and followed Gaven backing him up, shooting those whom he missed. The firefight was over quickly as the surprise attack killed every Elysian soldier along the trench. Their blue and white armored bodies piled on top of each other. 
The battle was over in less time than it took them to traverse the tunnel. The few surviving Elysian soldiers hoped out of the tunnel and back into the craters where they had arrived. They didn’t last long there as the Control rained suppressive fire down on them. The gray dust of the moon was drenched in red blood and yellow coolant from the Acheron suites. Gaven surveyed the carnage and watched as others tossed the dead enemy soldiers over the walls of the trench and pulled the only two Acheron casualties aside.
He stood over their silent armored bodies and removed their data chips. The causes of death scrolled by each person’s name. Deeks died from the shock of losing both of his legs at the waist. He only lived for a minute after being hit. Jade was hit in the head and died instantly.
“It could have been worse,” Slik said, standing beside his friend.
Gaven cleared his screen. “Have them form up on this row, I’ll report in.”
“Right.”
Slik moved down the trench and Gaven proceeded to untie the HF antenna to send his report. It whipped up above his head and waved back and forth in the brilliant light of the suns.
“Command this Blue Five.”
A scratchy female voice wavered into his ears. “Blue Five, how many kills?”
“Thirty-five enemy kills. Repeat, thirty-five kills.”
“Outstanding! How many casualties?”
“Two from my squad, sending vitals. Copy?”
There was a burst of static and then the air was quiet. He was about to repeat his last transmission when he was cut off by a male voice. “Blue Five, this is Captain Carty. We’re sending up a replacement squad for your platoon. Lieutenant Callum is KIA. I’m placing you in charge, Sergeant Major. Prepare to move forward. Copy?”
Gaven sighed. Promoted again? Fucking bastards.
“Negative copy. Can’t you send us a new LT? Over.”
“Son, you’re it for now.”
“Shit.”
“What was that?”
“Copy, Command. Blue Five out.”
Gaven switched off the command channel before he caught hell for the slip. He activated his secondary arms and turned them into fists. Then he started repeatedly punching the regolith walls of the trench in anger.
Shen’s voice could be heard over his comm, “They must have promoted him again.”
Slik had returned and stood watching his friend’s conniption. “Heroics always comes with a price in the Army. Gaven, if you keep this up you’ll ether be dead or the general in charge of the war.”
“I’d rather be dead,” Gaven uttered as he backed away from the wall and lowered his secondary arms.
All the remaining troopers in his squad were staring at Gaven.
“We’re not going back to base. A new squad is coming up to join us and we’re moving forward.”
Slik managed to shrug in his light armour and said, “Here we go again.”
________________






Chapter 11


B E T W I - T W O,  S I X  M O N T H S  L A T E R


A single Elysian drop ship zipped over Graul Outpost and launched a fresh platoon of suit warriors into the dark skies over Betwi-Two. Fifty soldiers fell in random streaks, tucked inside their shiny metal tubes. The narrow drop ship rolled over and ignited full thrusters to alter its course out of the combat zone. As the soldiers fell toward the dusty moon’s surface the dark sky behind them became engulfed with the explosion of their drop ship. Nailed by two unwavering missiles launched from Acheron ground forces the drop ship fell to the moon in millions of glittery pieces just over the horizon.
On the front lines, battle hardened First Army, First Platoon soldiers duck behind earthen walls covered in fine lunar dust and dried blood. Their armored suits are no longer pale blue and white. They’ve all been hastily sprayed with gray paint that’s been chipped and worn by endless fighting. Some of the more clever soldiers have found a way to mount the heavier enemy armor plates to their own suit armor. Combat is the mother of innovation.
A currier makes his way down a trench and into a hastily built field bunker. The door is but a flap of torn fabric. Inside the subterranean hovel is a single metal table covered with dusty satellite maps of the battlefield. A single soldier hunches over them deep in thought.
The currier interrupts the man with a cough over his comlink. “Message from above, Sarg.”
The man faces the currier. His sweaty brown hair is long and his chin is covered in a week’s growth of beard. The once clear blue eyes are now sullen and washed out. “Report,” Jared snarled.
“The last platoon of Newbs just came in. Their drop ship was destroyed.”
Jared turned back around and lurched over the black and white map. “Have the new maps brought to me ASAP. Dismissed.”
The currier starts to leave and then stops. “Sarg?”
Jared gestures for the man to speak but doesn’t turn around.
“One of the new kids in my squad wants to see you in person. Says he knew you back in the world.”
Jared didn’t react. Just stared at the map grid. The currier decided to clarify.
“He’s from one of them damn Victory Squads. You know, Last in First out type. I’ll tell him to shove it,” the man said, turning to leave.
“What’s his name?” Jared asked, turning his helmeted head ever so slightly.
“Corporal Hector.”
Hector. What the hell are you doing here, old friend? Jared turned around to face the currier. 
“Do you know him, Sarg?”
Jared nodded inside his helmet, his face softened by the memory of his childhood buddy. “Bring him down here. Oh, and assemble my leads outside.”
The currier bowed slightly saying, “Yes, Sergeant Major.” Then he left through the curtain door. Jared moved to his pile of gear nearby and strapped on his riffle and field pack full of extra ammunition. He grabbed the paper map from the table and  stepped outside the bunker.
Outside the sunlight is harshly bright. His visor darkens as he climbs up a short ladder that leads to an optical scope resting on the armor of a dead enemy soldier. Jared peers through the large, electronic viewfinder. He swings the scope around to focus on a distant hilltop. The trench lines are still, forever locked in a deadly stalemate. 
He jumps down off the ladder and faces a handful of weary NCOs. Each one of them is as fatigued and rugged as Jared. “Another drop ship has been destroyed. I figure it’ll be a week or longer until we’re resupplied. How are we doing on food and ammo?”
A First Sergeant stepped forward to give her report. Her name placard read, May. If he could have seen her eyes they would have been as brown as mud with dark black bags under them. Instead, all Jared saw was the weathered and worn exterior of her combat armor. There was no discernable difference in the outward appearance of either sex in the armor. Most of the females were only slightly smaller.
“Three days food and water, but the ammo’s going to run out sooner if we get in a prolonged firefight.”
Jared looked over to the next soldier. It was Geena, one of the old guard who came to this hell hole on the same day as Jared. “West side of their line is weakest. We could be inside in under an hour,” Geena said. Her voice filled with confidence bourn from months of combat experience.
A third NCO repositioned his rifle to the ready. It was Sergeant Naga, his helmet dented and scratched more than anyone else’s. The more shit you took in battle, the more respect the others gave you. Nobody was more respected than Naga.
“I agree.”
Naga was a man of few words but his actions spoke volumes. He was locked and loaded. Jared took out the rolled up map and opened it to show the area they were going to strike.
“This image is four days old, but you can clearly see the objective. We should be able to break through in a few hours. It won’t be easy though. I’ll need your best troops out front.”
Everyone bought into the plan, there were no dissenters. That was either a reflection of his leadership or there was genuine confidence the job could be accomplished. 
“I’m going to need someone to stay behind and make sure the newbs don’t shoot us in the back.”
Jared faced May who raised her hand in acknowledgment. “I got it, Sarge. We’ll have your back.”
“Good. Take your best people to help. If we get pinned down or overrun, you’ll have to hold the line indefinitely.”
May was slow to respond, she looked at the other squad leaders first. If they failed to take the ridge, she’d probably get the inevitable counterattack and all her green soldiers would perish. 
“Understood.”
Another currier rushed to Jared’s side and hands him a new rolled up map. Jared hands him back the old one and rolls it out. His leads all huddle around the map as Jared points to the ridge. The image looks exactly like the last one. The enemy hadn’t moved in days.
“Geena, you and your SAC will cut in here,” Jared pointed to the location with the weakest fortification. “At the same time, Naga and I will slip in under this heavy gun and take it out. Understood?”
Helmets bobbed. 
Jared rolled up the map and the group all took a step back. “Meet at the western tip in twenty mike. Dismissed.”
As his staff disperses Jared notices the approach of a clean, blue and white armored soldier. It was obviously someone new to the moon. Only his boots were covered in gray dust. He stopped before Jared and stood staring at him. The name placard on his jest read Hector, but Jared didn’t need it to know who it was. He recognised his old friend’s gate when he walked up.
Jared extended a gloved hand to him. Hector accepted it.
“I never expected you to be a Sergeant Major so soon,” Hector said over the suit comm.
“It’s not because I wanted it. It’s good to see you old friend.”
Hector let go of Jared’s hand and ducked as an enemy energy bolt blasted above their heads and exploded nearby. Jared didn’t even flinch. Just reached down and pulled up his friend. Hector got up and looked over Jared’s battle worn condition.
“I was right, you’ve turned into a battle hardened veteran on me.”
Jared shows Hector into the field bunker. Inside, he puts down the maps and picks up a water pouch. He hands the pouch to Hector who attaches it to his helmet and sucks the contents with a straw from inside his helmet. 
“How are things back on the homeworld?”
“You’re family’s fine, the crops were having a bumper year when I left.”
Both of their visors had lightened and they could now see each other’s faces. Hector still looked young and innocent to Jared’s war weary eyes. He set the drink pouch down and the glint in his dark eyes dimmed as he got serious. 
“Trille’s fucking going out of her mind! Your dispatch's stopped coming about a month before I left.”
Jared hadn’t expected that outburst, but he couldn’t deny his detachment from his old life on Elysia.
“I’ve been on this hell hole for months and we don’t get incoming mail.”
Hector pulled a water pouch out and tossed it aside in anger.
“That’s bullshit, Sergeant! You just don’t want to talk to her.”
Jared’s anger began to rise. Who the hell was this guy to lecture him about anything? “Look, I’m going to die here. We’re all going to die here. This fucking war is not what we thought it was. Its sheer madness!”
He moved closer to Hector who backed up, half expecting a fight.
“The more rank I get, the more I realise how much we were duped into signing up for this shit, man. It’s better for her if she just forgets about me. I’ll be dead soon and she can get on with her life. Preferably with someone smart enough not join the damn Army!”
Jared moved away, pacing the confined room like a caged animal.
“I don’t believe what I’m hearing. What happened to the Victor’s of Betweos?”
Jared stopped and slowly turned around. He picked up his rifle and shouldered it. As he brushed by he said, “One of us grew up.”
* * *
Outside in the trench the black sky was filled with exploding shells and colored beams of plasma. A battle was raging on a nearby ridgeline but his troops were not affected by it. They were either at the ready or preparing to head out on the western flank mission. Jared ducked into another field bunker. It was a communications post named COMM-FIVER.The walls were lined with power generators, portable transceivers and various secure computers. Selina had been transferred to comm a few months back and her unit had been locked in place along side his for several months. 
The bunker was shielded and it had an airlock. One of the few places on the moon where you could risk taking your helmet off. The other one being the Processing Bunker, buried beneath tons of regolith below the surface. Front line soldiers cycled back to the PB for much needed showers and sleep. Even the commanders knew that they couldn’t expect soldiers to fight indefinitely without periods of calm to reset their nerves. 
Jared and Selina managed to sync up their down times a few months ago and in the process, consummated their love for one another. There was no privacy down there but that didn’t stop them. Torrid love making under covers and in the farthest corners of the showers went a long way towards keeping their sanity during the intense fighting on the surface. 
Jared hadn’t thought about Trille in a long time. Until now. He stopped sending her dispatches months ago and had hers rerouted to random soldiers hoping to confuse her enough to stop trying. Those that got through to him he routinely deleted without reading. At some point he stopped getting them from her and eventually all but forgot about her. The only woman in his life now was the dark eyed, gray haired Selina. 
When he was with Selina he was free and unbound from any social constraints. She indulged his wildest sexual desires and he returned the courtesy without coaxing. Other soldiers randomly hooked up with partners and then broke off only to hook up with different ones during the next down period. But Selina and him stayed together and didn’t seem interested in trying out different partners. They had garnered a reputation for being sexual snobs. Rebuffing everyone else’s advances while remaining loyal to each other. When nobody knew for sure if they would live another day, intimacy took on a whole new level of importance to them. Nobody really wanted to fall in love, they just wanted to feel good for the moment because it might be their last moments alive.
The only thing Selina and Jared spoke about that was not about the killing above or the fucking below was the Bug Myth. He had become immune to her conspiracy theories and her dogged belief that the enemy were not bugs but in fact were other humans. He had tried to argue with her against it but had eventually just given up and tuned her out. It was easier to faint interest than to constantly be correcting her silly lies and false arguments. After a while he just let his mind wander wherever she started to rant. Sometimes he thought about the world he left behind and sometimes he thought about whether he would die the next day or be spared again only to have to wonder about it the next day.
Selina was wearing her dark gray fatigues and her streaked hair was pulled into a tail with loose strands falling into her eyes. He loved her freakishly blue-gray hair. It didn’t use to be gray, it was a light, dirty blonde color on Acheron. Something about the chemicals used to cure her scabs had caused all of her hair to turn prematurely blue-gray. It didn’t seem to affect anyone else in that way. 
She looked over her shoulder at him lifting the headphones off her ears. “Hey you, what are you doing in here?”
He bent over and snuggled against her exposed ear. “I’m heading out to the western front. Wanted to see you before I left.”
She looked confused. He’d never surprised her like this before while they were on duty and it obviously made her uncomfortable. “Okay.”
“It’s nothing, I’ll be back for chow.”
Her dark eyes narrowed. “Better get going then.”
Looking into her eyes a sudden thought sobered him out of his good mood. She was more important to him than he was to her. She didn’t seem the least bit concerned for his safety. In fact she looked troubled that he had even stopped by. He swallowed hard and turned to leave.  (note.)
“Hey, Sergeant,” she called out after him.
He stopped and slowly faced her. She got up and came to him and put her hand to his chest plate. “I’m sorry, you just took me off guard coming here. Are you not expecting to return?”
He shook his moppy head of hair. “It’ll be fine. No worries.”
Her expression had softened and it melted the chill off his heart. She kissed him fully on the lips and smirked as she returned to her station. He watched her until she sat down and then locked his helmet back in place. 








 








________________






Chapter 12


B E T W I - T W O,  G R A U L  O U T P O S T


Graul Outpost’s rear echelon backed up to a craggly mountain ridge as old as the moon itself. Tunnels were dug into the mountain and hollowed out regions were used for supply depots. After months of fighting on the front lines, Gaven’s squad was rotated back to the depot for a month of cleaning and repairing other soldier’s armor. Being the senior enlisted member, Gaven was made the depot’s Top. The duties didn’t get him out of work, but put him in charge of several squads of soldiers responsible to maintaining the platoon’s armor and supplies. It was a cake job next to fighting all the time. They were still in a combat zone and they still had to put down their tools and pick up rifles whenever called upon by Command. 
But Gaven was okay with that. Most of his days were spent dealing with repairs to suit armor and managing the limited supplies that came in when there was a lull in the fighting. Not having someone shooting at you all the time did wonders for moral and let you think about other things, like who to knock boots with. He and Shen were out in the open now and nobody seemed to care. Even Command didn’t reprimand anyone screwing whomever they wanted. So long as order was maintained and the repairs got completed in a timely manner. Gaven had no trouble maintaining order and making sure their jobs got finished correctly. Sometimes there were personnel issues that came up and he usually settled them quickly. A couple of the younger soldiers were fighting over the affections of some young thing and Gaven had to come between them and use corporal punishment. A good wall-to-wall counseling usually solved that kind of thing and left them unwilling to test him on other things. 
Lately he had noticed that Shen was slipping away somewhere when she was supposed to be on duty. She always had some lame excuse to explain where she was at but he never really bought them. Gaven had Slik tail her on more than one occasion and he wasn’t able to find anything incriminating like another man or woman or any other malfeasance. Still, it bothered Gaven more than it should have. Was he jealous or just starting to get too close to her? He wasn’t entirely certain himself. It seemed petty and distracting to him when he thought about it but he still hated it when she slipped away unexpectedly. 
Slik was convinced Shen was talking to a Polit Officer and reporting on what Gaven’s squad was doing. But then Slik was always distrustful of authority to the point of being paranoid. Gaven tended to ignore his friend’s suspicions about most things. Including what he thought of Shen. If it had been up to Slik, he would have killed Shen back on the surface. 
Gaven looked over at Slik who was hammering out the dents in a piece of armor across the bay. Sometimes he wondered if Slik were going behind his back with Shen. It would have been the perfect double cross because Gaven would never have suspected the two of them would ever like each other enough to fuck around. One time he had Slik tailed to find out where he was when both he and Shen went missing. Turned out Slik was banging someone all right but it was not Shen. Slik tended to do things in private and never bragged about his conquests to anyone so Gaven wasn’t even sure the man was interested in such things. Finding out he was horny after all made Gaven respect the man in ways that killing enemy troops just didn’t cover.
Gaven finished up and told the soldier to beat it back to the front. Another four armed soldier approached, this one bearing the markings of a field grade officer. It was Captain Carty.
“Sergeant Gaven, we have a weak spot on the western flank interior. Take some of your people and scope it out.”
Gaven stood up and snapped a salute. You couldn’t salute on the front lines for fear of snipers but if you didn’t salute back in the depot you would catch all kinds of crap for it. 
“Sir, we’re not fitted for combat armor. We haven’t been on the line for a month now.”
“You’re my most experience NCO. I’m not sending you to the front, just the western interior. Now get the hell over there and tell me what you see.”
Gaven saluted again. “Yes, sir.”
Carty didn’t return the salute, just turned his back and strode out of the area. Gaven swore at him in his head and then went over and picked up a couple of rifles and some grenades. He ambled over to where Slik was finished a job and handed his friend one of the fully charged rifles.
“What’s up?”
“Carty wants us to check for signs of a breach on the western wall.”
Slik stands up and takes the weapon. “Oh, yeah. Combat. For a while there I thought we were stuck in the rear with the gear.”
“Let’s just get this over with so we can get back here and relax.”
Slik charges his weapon and takes a few grenades from Gaven. He attaches them to a bandoleer on his armor and they both trudge off down a darkened corridor forged from solid rock.
* * *
Slik and Gaven stroll down a high ceiling corridor of carved lunar rock. Horizontal grooves in the gray rock only go up a few meters before giving way to broken rock. Only a few red marker lights illuminate their path along the dusty floor. They carried their rifles loosely, like they were not anticipating using them. Gaven turns on a flood light with his secondary battle arms and hands over his rifle to take the light. Pointing it up at the ceiling he looks for any signs of damage.
A battle is raging several meters beyond the wall and they can feel the vibrations from heavy enemy shells impacting the mountain. Bits of rock and dust fall on them as they walk.
Slik is a few meters behind Gaven, pointing his flood along the grooved walls. “Looks okay to me man. Let’s get out of here.”
Gaven continues forward. “Just a little further.”
“Damn, I knew you were going to say that.”
They walk a bit slower, sweeping their floods back and forth until they find a pile of freshly crumbles rocks. Gaven pointed his flood up to the ceiling and saw the black of space accented with the cold, unblinking light of distant stars.
“This is serious,” he said.
“I knew it.”
“Stay here, I’m calling it in,” Gaven said. He moved away from the fissure and undid his long range antenna. It sprang open above his helmet, waving back and forth on a spring.
“Command this is Survey One. We’ve got a massive fissure open to the space down here. Advise shutting down this tunnel, over?”
A burst of static fills his ears as Captain Carty responds, “Alright Survey One, get your asses back here ASAP!”
“Copy, out.”
Slik had been feeling the rough edges of the wall where the fissure had reached all the way to the floor. Gaven switched back to his intercom. “Okay Slik, let’s roll.”
Slik turns around and heads back towards Gaven.
He takes two steps before a massive explosion outside causes half the corridor to slide down on top of him. Gaven yells, “No!” and moves towards where his friend had just been standing. A massive pile of rock and debris completely buried Slik.
More rock starts falling causing Gaven to continue forward using his secondary arms he hurdles rock and stone until finally getting smothered by dust and smaller rocks.
* * *
On the western slope of the mountain, Jared’s squad directed incoming rounds onto a massive gun turret. It took a few salvos to hit the mark and when it did a massive explosion sent the top of the turret up into the blackness of space and rained down gray rock and dust. Everyone was covered in the dust as they hunkered down.
Jared raised his head and got to his knees to see better. As the smoke settled he could see the demolished turret and what looked like an opening into the mountain itself. He lowered an external device over his visor that magnified his visual. It was definitely a fissure.
He signaled Naga who’s already to his feet ahead of him to circle around the turret to investigate the fissure. Then Jared called back into Command to confirm the target was destroyed and to prevent them from pummeling the area with anymore shells.
“Command, Blue Four. We’re going to investigate an opening in the mountain behind the turret. Seize fire. Over?”
There’s a burst of static over the comms before a voice responds. “Copy that, Blue Four.”
Don’t sound so enthused, he thought to himself. He waved on the others in the squad who were getting to their feet to follow Naga up the side of the mountain.They staked out defensive positions around the fissure as Jared walked over to the ridge and peered down inside. It was dark but he could see a dim red light not far below.
He looked back at Naga who shook his head. “Bad idea, Sarg.”
Jared waved him off. It wasn’t that far down and there were no enemy contacts on his screen. The hairs on the back of his neck were prickly as he started to make his way down the pile of loose rocks and regolith. He was breaking the combat buddy rule buy going in by himself. But he didn’t care anymore about procedures. He just wanted to see what the hell was down there. 
Did they actually blast into the back side of the enemy fortress or was this just an empty hole? The red light indicted to him that there had to be something there.
“Sarg, we’re kinda exposed up here,” Naga’s voice nagged at him.
Jared ignored him and slid his way down to what looked like a carved floor of a corridor. He hit his flood lamp and panned across the darkness. It was a corridor. They had broken into the enemy fortifications. 
“I’m inside the enemy fort, Naga. Signal Command we have a breech and get down here.
“Copy.”
Jared takes out his rifle and kills his flood. It was stupid to have turned it on before scanning in IR. He lit the area in IR and watched the monocolor display across his screen. No signs of life. Nothing. He let out a long, slow sigh of relief.
The chamber was suddenly lit as bright as day as a something shot up from behind a pile of rubble to the crevice where Jaren had entered. The rocket rose on a pillar of flame until it got to the opening and then it blew up. The resulting explosion caused the fissure to seal itself up and more rock and debris dumped into the chamber floor. Jared was quickly buried under the rubble in a cloud of gray dust.
________________






PART TWO
________________
Chapter 13
B E T W I - T W O






The corridor was dark and still. Dust from the regolith above had settled and the only light was a dim red marker a few dozen meters from the collapse. A narrow white beam flicked on and scanned the rubble with laser-like intensity. It stopped on a frozen figure sitting upright against the far wall.
Jared raised his rifle and shot out the light with one pull of his trigger. It was answered with a plasma flash from Gaven’s rifle. The shot impacted beside Jared and took a chunk out of the rock wall. Jared pulled himself up and dove for protection behind a boulder nearly as big as him.
 Jared shot off a flare from the back of his suit. It careened off the newly sealed ceiling and hovered like an an intense star, bathing the whole corridor in harsh, white light. It hovers above the two combatants as they both try to take defensive positions behind newly created boulders.
He catches a glimpse of the enemy bug soldier trying to hide behind a boulder half his size. Its six legs were sprawled out in pathetic effort to lay low. Jared draws a bead on the pathetic bug and squeezes the trigger. Nothing happens. He checks twists the rifle down and looks at the charge meter on the weapon’s side. Two segmented red zeroes showed on the display. He was empty. He tossed the rifle in the direction of the bug soldier. It clattered on the stone floor halfway between them.
The bug started to move. Jared watched in fascination as it angled for a better shot at him and then didn’t shoot. What the hell? Are you out too? The bug soldier didn’t move. It didn’t try to read the gun’s charge or switch positions to fire a secondary weapon. It just layed there, pointing its gun at him and not firing.
Jared wondered if he were being held in position until more bugs arrived for backup. That didn’t make much sense, given their current situation. The way back into the mountain was blocked by what looked like another recent cave in. 
“Take the shot, bugger! What the hell are you waiting for?” Jared shouted inside his suit. The alien couldn’t hear him and even if it could it probably didn’t know his language. Jared sat back and pondered the situation. He could try and approach the bug soldier and see if he could get the thing to fire at him. Or he could sit around and wait for Naga to break open the fissure and give him some backup. He looked up at the solid rock high above, shielding his eyes from the intense light of the flare. It would shine for another few minutes before dying and falling to the ground.
Jared decided to force a fight. He stood up and walked across the open ground between them. The bug soldier stood upright, still pointing his rifle at Jared. Jared stopped and stood over his empty rifle. 
The bug held out his rifle from his side and dropped it to the ground. 
        “Ah, you were empty,” Jared taunted. “I knew it.”
The bug soldier took a few steps toward Jared and Jared withdrew the same amount, keeping the distance between them equal.
“I’m not stupid, bugger. I know you got cannons on your suit.”
The heads up display on Jared’s visor started sputtering and then winked off. It wasn’t really of any use to him anyhow. The enemy was standing in front of him. 
The flare began to sputter above them and started to dim. The bug soldier pointed up to his and Jared followed his gaze. The flare went out and fell to the ground. Jared shot off another one that emitted a blue-white strobe. It gave their movements a slow motion look to Jared’s unaided eyes.
Jared felt the earth move underneath him. More rocks and boulders started to fall. Naga was coming for him! Using the confusion to make a move, Jared charged the bug soldier. It fired the personal defense cannons but missed Jared and opened a whole underneath them.
Both warriors fell a few meters into a cavernous pit with a metallic floor. Heavy metal doors close above them, cutting off the light of the flare and protecting them from more falling rock and dirt.
* * *
Jared opened his eyes and saw that he was in a metallic room with flickering, fluorescent lights along the walls. The bug soldier was lying on his back a few meters away under a few smaller chunks of rock. Jared’s health meters were green but his head was still ringing from the fall. He slowly got to his feet and noticed his rifle nearby. Picking it up he re-checked it for a charge. It was still empty. He held onto it anyway as he watched the bug for any signs of life.
There didn’t seem to be any way out of the room they were in. Smooth metal walls and a rough textured metal floor seemed impenetrable. What the hell place was this? Something told him the bug didn’t know either. Maybe it was just a soldier’s intuition. The design didn’t look Acheron Army to him. It sure didn’t look like anything his own side had built either.
The bug began to stir. It righted itself using the middle arms and stood staring at him with one of its two metallic eyes busted up pretty good. Jared made sure to stay at least a few steps away from it considering what happened before. 
The entomol raised two arms up to its head and started to detach the heavy helmet. Jared rechecked his screens and got no reading on the atmosphere of the room. He just assumed it was still a vacuum like outside on the surface of the moon. He doubted the bug would be exposing himself if there were no air of some kind. Perhaps this was part of its base after all. 
The large helmet released a cloud of gas as it unlocked. Jared wondered what kind of toxic air the bug breathed on its home world. He was all too happy to keep his own suit in tact.
A thought flitted through Jared’s head. It was annoying and troublesome to him given his current situation. What if it’s not a bug? What if Selina was right about the Bug Myth? Jared bit his lower lip and watched the helmet slide up and off the bug’s suit. 
It was a man! A human fucking being! A young one with an intense stare the equal of any Elysian soldier Jared had met. The man tossed his heavy helmet to the side where it made a loud thud on the metal flooring. The noise startled Jared out of his open mouthed stare.
“What the hell are you staring at?” the man asked.
Jared couldn’t respond. He just stood there. His weapon fell from his hands and clattered on the floor. The sound startled him. After another long moment of watching the sweaty headed human stare back at him, Jared removed his own helmet and let it fall to the ground beside him.
“You’re human?” Jared stated, still in disbelief.
“No shit, what’d you think I was?” the man replied.
“You, you were. I mean, we thought we were fighting bugs.”
The man looked at him as if he were insane. 
“Seriously? How can you be that fucking naive?”
Jared had no response for that. He just shook his head in disbelief. She was right. Selina and her Peacers were right. They were actually fighting other humans all this time. Unfucking real.
“But, you have six legs,” Jared finally stated.
The human soldier shook his head and approached Jared. “These secondary arms are mechanical. I only have two arms and two legs, just like you.”
Standing before the man Jared could smell his body odor and realized he smelled exactly like every other soldier he fought with. Looking closer at the man’s unshaven face he noticed the veins on his temple were dark green, not blue like his own. There was a cut across his temple that bled a yellowish substance.
“Why isn’t your blood red?”
The man shook his head as if he were talking to a child. “It’s the goop the army injects to fortify us for combat. Gives us better oxygen flow than the iron in blood.”
Jared nodded his understanding although he really didn’t get it.
“What’s your name? Mine’s Gaven.”
“Jared.”
Gaven reached out with his own gloved hand to shake Jared’s hand. Taking it the two soldiers shook like gentlemen over an agreement. Jared’s mind was still reeling from seeing the impossible.
“We, we speak the same language too,” Jared stated.
“Are all Elysian soldiers as quick as you?” Gaven asked. He moved past Jared and started running his gloves over the stainless steel walls.
“What are you looking for?”
“A way out of this place,” Gaven said, pointing up with his right lower arm. “It appears that we are trapped in here.”
Jared surveyed the room closer this time. But his eyes kept coming back to Gaven. He still couldn’t believe he was fighting other humans. Everything his government had told him was dead wrong. Everything.
“There has to be a ventilation system in here if we can breath.”
Gaven’s spare arm pointed over to the far wall where a narrow slit ran half the length of the room. “Yeah, try and keep up, will ya?”
“I’m looking for a hidden door or something. Help me out here.”
Jared walked to the nearest wall and ran his fingers around the wall in the same fashion as Gaven. It was all perfectly smooth stainless steel, no grooves, no indentions. No controls of any kind.
They met back where they had started. Jared was still staring uncomfortably at Gaven. Maybe it was a trick, or maybe Lacithe lured me into a trap and this was some kind of test.
“Look, stop staring at me buddy. I’m human, we’re all humans. But I ain’t from your world.”
Jared’s eyes narrowed. “What’s your world like, anyway?”
Gaven seemed annoyed again with having to explain reality.
“Acheron is a dead planet. The surface is toxic, nothing grows under permanently cloudy skies and acid rain. Civilization moved underground years ago. Only the surface gangs live outside, where the toxic conditions slowly kill them.”
Jared could tell he might have touched a nerve with the haggard soldier.
“Is that where you came from, the surface?”
Gaven nodded. “The army takes the strongest of us and turns us into soldiers to fight in their war. I was captured and brought here against my will. If I survive my tour, I can live as a lower class citizen instead of a Topsider. What’s your excuse?”
Jared shrugged. “I volunteered to come here. I willingly joined the army to defend my world from the Bugs.”
Gaven shook his head. “Damn, I don’t know which of us was duped better.”
He moved over to a wall that had some cryptic writing on it. “Can you read this?”
Jared follows him over and studied the words. “This is the ancient tongue of  my great grandmother’s day.”
Gaven stared blankly back at Jared. “Can you read it?”
“Air changer pass, something, something,” Jared mumbled.
Gaven waited patiently as Jared fought to read the placard.
“Oh, exit. I think it means exit here.”
Gaven looked back at the seamless wall. “How? There’s no controls and no opening.”
Jared reached out and touched the placard. “Push here.”
A panel sunk into the wall about the size of a human. Both of them grinned amusingly at each other. Then Gaven pushed the button again and the panel withdraws into a hidden passage. He brought up his weapon, remembered it’s empty and then tossed it behind them. He turned on his floods and headed into the darkness.
Jared’s light was on his helmet so he just followed Gaven inside with a final look back at the empty main room.
________________






Chapter 14
B E T W I  -  T W O,  B E T W E E N E R  S T A T I O N


Inside the antechamber there were more placards. Jared studied them for a few minutes and then surmised what they were. “It’s an elevator and it only goes down.”
Gaven shrugged. “I got no pressing desire to go back to the war, do you?”
Jared shook his head. He was beginning to like this guy. He took a stab at the controls and the door slid shut behind them and they started to fall. 
“I picked the lowest floor,” Jared said.
“Good. Maybe we’ll see who’s home. Did your people make this place?”
Jared shook his head. “Not in my lifetime. We were never told about it anyway.”
The lift came to a halt and the door slid open. Both men stared at the opening. Finally Gaven moved out first followed closely by Jared. It was some kind of a control room but it hadn’t been used in a very long time. All the consoles were dormant and covered in layers of gray dust. There was a white flag on one of the walls. Jared moved over to study it. There were three circles on the flag a red, gray and blue one. Jared recognized it immediately. It was the symbol of the Bug Myth anti-war Peacers. 
“You know this flag?” Gaven asked.
“It’s a Peacer Flag. There’s an anti-war movement on my planet and this is their symbol, three circles on a white background.”
Jared and Gaven lock eyes for a moment. Then Gaven looks back at the flag. 
“It looks familiar to me. What do you suppose the circles represent?”
Jared pointed at the circles in order from left to right, “Blue is my world, silver is Betweos and red is your world.”
“That implies some kind of cooperation, doesn’t it?”
Jared turned back to Gaven with a confused look.
“I don’t understand. What are you suggesting?’
Gaven shrugged and moved away. He tried to make sense of the ancient instruments all covered in a thin layer of lunar dust. “Whoever worked here left a long time ago. These terminals are hundreds of years old,” Gaven said, fingering the dust on the control panels.
“Everything in here is old.”
Jared wiped the dust from a stack of papers and tried to read the charts printed on them. “This is a transport schedule. I think this place might have been a shipping station of some kind.”
Gaven fiddled with the controls and some of the desktop equipment. “This stuff looks like the junk we have on the surface of Acheron. I’ve never seen it looking so new before.”
Jared moves to another stack of paper and blows the fine dust from it. He picks it up and pushes his finger across the page, trying to read the ancient words. 
“This language is very archaic. I think it’s Ellenico, the old tongue.”
He reads something and his face lights up. “This is a Betweener Station!”
Gaven stares blankly back at him, it clearly means nothing to him.
“They were traders. Facilitating trade between Elysia to Acheron, hundreds of years ago.”
Gaven came back over to look at the pages as Jared reads them he hands them over. Gaven glances at them and lays them down on the desk, still unable to read them.
“Here’s orders for tons of corn, soybeans and meat all coming from Elysia and heading towards your world. Here’s a return shipment coming from Acheron to my world for electronics and machined goods.”
Gaven studied the charts, he could make sense of pictures. Jared moved around the control room and started to feel air blowing from the vents above them. A few panel lights lit up as if waking from a deep sleep. He marveled at what kind of power source could survive for so long.
“I think we woke this place up by coming in here. Can you hear the air exchangers? I can feel the deck vibrating. I wonder what kind of power they were using that could survive unattended for so long?” Jared asked.
Gaven lingered behind Jared, his voice a suggestive whisper. “Maybe this place was never abandoned?” Jared didn’t seem hear him.
There were panel windows or displays of some kind along the far wall. Jared moved over to them and touched them with his gloved hand. The glass-like material was smooth, but opaque.
The instrument panel below him lit up. Old video screens started glowing and keyboards formed on the panels. The overhead lights winked on causing both of them to look up.
Both soldiers waited for something else to happen but nothing did. Fresh air circulated in the room and screens came alive but only showed text based terminals with scrolling numbers.
Jared found more documentation and scanned them in an effort to understand them. 
“I don’t see any evidence this was a military facility. Do you?” Gaven asked.
Jared shook his head slowly as he read something pertinent. “This is a trade manifest for transfer ships. It looks like the Betweeners stayed here while Betweos orbited both of our home stars. That’s like a decade or more. When the planet was orbiting Elysia’s star, food and raw metals were transferred to this moon and stored.
“When Betweos shifted back around your home star, the goods were transferred to Acheron and in return finished products were shipped back to Betwi-Two bound for Elysia.”
Gaven moved to the dust covered glass screens and used a finger to draw out a diagram of the binary star system in which they both lived. Acheron orbited a small, red dwarf star named Kolasi he drew it out and labeled it. Then he drew the yellow star known as Paradis and the blue-green world of Elysia. Standing back for a moment to surmise the drawing, he then traced the orbit of Betweos in a lopsided figure eight around both stars. When the planet came around Paradis, it was close enough to easily be reached by rockets launched from Elysia. When it swung around Kolasi it was equally near enough for people living on Acheron to reach.
“So, Betweos was a stepping stone. A convenient way to move people and goods from one planet to another,” Gaven stated.
Jared studied the drawing and nodded. “It must have started a long time ago. I mean, we’ve been taught that all life evolved on Elysia, over millennia.”
Gaven shook his head and pressed, “No, don’t you see? We evolved on Acheron. Our star, Kolasi is far older. It must have captured Paradis at some point. Who knows where the planets originated.”
Jared seemed confused. “Everything I’ve been taught in school is wrong. I’m stunned.”
Gaven started speaking in a reverent tone. “Legends of my people say that long ago they had used up all the natural resources of their home world and turned it into an unlivable wasteland. The best and brightest people were sent to paradise to start over again with a new, unspoiled planet.”
“Paradis.”
Gaven nodded. “Elysia is an ancient Acheron word for paradise.”
“Over the years, Acheron traded with Elysia until paradise became self-sufficient. The right to come to heaven is what I’m supposed to be fighting for, not the chance to live in the interior of a dead world. I never believed all that crap because I came from the highest, poorest level of society. My chances of ever getting out were next to nothing.”
Jared raised an eyebrow. “And now you could die here,” he indicated the moon they were on, “halfway to heaven.”
“You’ll die here too, halfway to hell,” Gaven replied.
Jared adopted the same reverent tone to his voice. “There are prophecies on my world too. Tales about the dead returning from hell to reclaim our planet for themselves. Of course the government told us it was a vicious colony of sentient bugs. I never paid those old tales any attention, largely because they were considered blasphemous.
“Peacer propaganda all spoke of us having come from Acheron originally and that we’ve been fighting other humans all this time and not bugs. Nobody in their right mind took them seriously.”
Gaven drew out the three circle Peacer flag on the dusty glass and then turned to face Jared. “Do you believe the Peacers now?”
Jared stared at Gaven hard. Finally, he nodded. “Yes.”
Gaven pointed to the three circles he had just drawn on the glass. “ I know where I’ve seen this before. On Acheron this is a corporate symbol. It’s stamped on everything from gun parts to food containers.” He writes the letters S, V and K above each circle. Stratos, Viomichania, Kyvernisi.”
Jared nods. “That’s Elliniki for Military, Industry and Government.”
Gaven moves back to the flag on the wall and shakes the thick layer of dust off of it. Written inside each circle is a light gray letter - S V K. He looks back at Jared who’s staring at the flag in disbelief. 
Gaven reaches up to the chest plate of his armor with a mechanical second arm and unscrews one of the Personal Defense Cannons. He handed Jared the metal tube of the short barrel. Jared held it up to examine it. The letters S V K are stamped on it.
Jared picks up his rifle and sets it down on the nearest console. He field strips it and then shows Gaven the writing on the barrel. Again, stamped in the blued barrel are the letters S V K. 
Then Jared pulls out a food package from his leg pouch. It’s a blue and gold metallic foil with some writing near the bottom. He reads it outloud, “SVK Foods. That’s the name of the parent company who owns the farm I used to work on.”
“I don’t think the planetary governments even know what is going on,” Gaven said.
Jared looks back down at the charts and flings the papers he was holding, they fly around and down to the metal floor. “There’s no mention of any war between our worlds. Why are we fighting now?”
Gaven shrugged as best as he could inside his suit. “Maybe the Elysians didn’t need us anymore. Maybe they wanted their independence.”
Jared didn’t want to hear that. He looked away in thought. “Why make up the whole bug myth story? I mean, I don’t get the reason for all that.”
“Maybe they knew they would never be able to get you to fight unless you felt threatened. Everybody hates bugs.”
“But we would have eventually caught on right? I mean all it took to discover the truth was for you to take off your helmet.”
Gaven raised his chin. “The Elysian’s never take prisoners. You kill even the wounded. That freaks us the hell out and leads to higher mortality rates in combat than for your side.”
“We’re told you don’t take prisoners either. Don’t your soldiers kill the wounded?”
Gaven shook his head. “Nope. They are taken back to Acheron and reprogrammed. Many of the sons-of-bitches are our military leaders.”
Jared’s eyes roll. How fucking twisted is this war? It keeps getting crazier and crazier the more I learn about it. The war had turned into a funhouse mirror, reflecting a bizarre truth that kept turning his worldview upside down. He looked at Gaven again. The man was unshaven and his skin was sweaty and dirty from living in a suit for months at a time. He was not a bug and Jared felt no hatred for him. If he had to kill Gaven right now he would not be able to pull the trigger.
He was no longer a less than human bug that had to be exterminated at all costs. He was a just a man, not unlike himself. Gaven was right, if Jared had known he was going off to war to fight other humans, he would not have volunteered. He might even have avoided it at all costs.
The realization that he had killed dozens of Acheron soldiers since he got here started to turn his stomach. Some of them were his Elysian brothers in arms. I’m a goddamn murderer, not a war hero. Feeling upset to the point of being sick he moved away and sat down with his back to the wall. He felt defeated in every way. 
“I had no idea any of that was going on.”
Gaven picked up one of the old shipping charts and blew the dust off of it. It clearly showed orbital paths from Acheron to Betweos at different times when the orbit of the gas giant was closer to Acheron. Following the paths with a finger he realized some of them were for incoming shipments and others were for outgoing shipments. It was all according to some larger plan. The two sides seemed to be reliant on each other, tied together for mutual benefit.
“The war must have started after this base was shut down. Dates here indicate that was close to two hundred years ago. Do you still think our governments are in contact?”
Jared was barely listening to him. He just stared ahead not saying anything. Gaven walked over to him and handed him the chart. Jared took it and listened this time when Gaven repeated the question.
He studied the orbits and compared them to what was happening now. Eversince the war started, they only fought when Betweos was between both of their stars. The period lasted about six months before the gas giant system moved out of reach for one side or the other. Because Elysia’s star was larger, Betweos lingered longer in the Paradis system than the Kolasi system. Jared knew these were the decades when there were no fighting and society seemed to gear itself up for the next time the planet neared the halfway mark. 
Munitions plants stepped up output and farms began storing food piles so they could feed the troops that would be heading off to fight. Growing up on a farm he was well aware of these cycles. Recalling them now he realized they corresponded to generations. His grandfather fought two campaigns ago and his father was deferred during the last campaign. He always knew that when he turned eighteen he would be of age for the next big attack on the moons of Betweos. There was no memory of the war before his grandfather. Maybe grandfather Jara was the first generation to fight. This was damn convenient for the government because nobody was alive now who remembered a time before the war.
“There’s no evidence that my people know what is really going on. We all think Acheron is filled with Entos, sentient bugs bent on our mutual destruction. It’s been that way since my grandfather’s time. That must have been some kind of a coverup to have lasted this long.”
Gaven sat down across from Jared, using his mechanical arms to ease himself down. “There has to be someone on your side that knows the truth. For us it’s the Polit Officers that run things, not the military leaders. They all report back to the central government.”
Jared’s blue eyed grew larger. “We have them too. They are assigned to every military unit. Do you think they are the only ones that know about this?”
Gaven shrugged. His dark eyes looked away as a thought occurred to him. Jared saw the awareness. “What? What are you thinking?”
“What if the Polit Officers on my side are actually Elysian officers?”
Jared put his hands to his forehead and slowly shook his head. He couldn’t take much more of this mind fuck.
“What better way to ensure the deception continues on both sides?”
“I can’t believe Stickman is an operative. He seemed like the ultimate warrior to me. Calm and collect and all knowing.” Jared dropped his hands and looked at Gaven.
“My PO is Hacker. He does everything he can to piss us off and make us want to hate your side. He slaughtered my trench tribe and told us it was an Elysian missile attack.”
“But, we have no such missiles.”
“No shit,” Gaven said.
“Man, what a hellish world you come from.”
Gaven touches his breast plate. “Me? What about you? Your people have convinced the entire planet you’re fighting cock roaches.”
Jared shook his head slowly, acknowledging the touchẽ. 
“I don’t think the governments of our planets are running this war,” Gaven stated.
Jared looked over at him. The enemy soldier was stone cold serious.
“Who is then?”
“I think it’s the corporation - SVK. They make everything this war uses except the people who die fighting it.”
Jared nodded slowly in agreement. It were true. If SVK was a multi-planet corporate entity then they would have every reason to ensure the war continues. They’re making a killing off of both sides.
“If SVK were running the war, they would be making untold amounts of profits. Which would be a clear motivation to continue the conflict,” Jared said.
“What do you suppose they are doing with all that money?”
Jared sat his head back against the wall and tried to recall who were the richest people in Elysian society. It wasn’t the working class, he knew that for sure. So that left government and business owners. The most wealth seemed to come from agricultural conglomerates and technology companies. They must all be tied into the government and thus into the military. 
“My whole society is driven by the cycles of this war which in turn are driven by the orbit of Betweos. When the planet is in orbit of our star, we work furiously to fortify the moons and stockpile them with munitions and food. When Betweos starts heading back towards your star, we send our troops there to fight. By the time it comes back around, we are sending more troops to fight and retake it from your side. In that down time we are making babies, food and weapons. 
“The war keeps our economy rising at incredible rates. Since the war started we’ve become a more prosperous and healthy society. There is no sickness and no unemployment to speak of. Healthy people go off to fight and when they come back they start families and when their kids mature, they go off to fight.”
Gaven frowned. “The same rhythmic cycle affects my world. But the rich live deep inside the planet and they regularly raid the surface for the poor wretches that are forced to live in poverty there. The only time the rich come to the surface is to launch missions to Betweos to fight the war. Although I’ve heard rumors that there are facilities on the far side of Acheron where supplies are taken from Betweos and distributed to the lower classes.”
“I’ll bet those supplies are what’s feeding your elites. Do you even have agriculture on your world?”
Gaven shook his head slowly. “Not that I’m aware of. But I’ve never been to the lowest levels.”
Jared got up and went to the screens where Gaven drew his map of the system. He looked down at the controls and started pushing buttons. One of them activated the screens and turned them transparent. 
There was a vast room under them with thousands of containers all stacked neatly into rows. He punched more buttons and lights winked on in the cavernous warehouse.
“Gaven, look at this.”
Gaven used his secondary arms to hoist himself up and moved to the windows. His mouth fell open in amazement of how large the warehouse was. Jared had already moved aside to locate another seemingly hidden door. He found the controls and opened it. Air hissed inside from the warehouse.
The door slid aside revealing a catwalk that snaked its way down the side of the warehouse wall to the grated floor hundreds of feet below. He motioned to Gaven before heading down the narrow yellow staircase. Gaven followed but hesitated when he saw how high up they were.
“Come on, what are you waiting for?” Jared asked.
“I’ve never been this high up before. I, I don’t think I like it.”
Jared waved to him like it was nothing. “Just don’t look down, you’ll be fine.”
Gaven slowly turned to face the the narrow catwalk that led to the stairway. He proceeded at a much slower pace than Jared. It took them several minutes to climb down to the floor. At one point they were as high as the storage containers stacked three deep.
Jared started trying to read the labels on the containers. He ran his finger across the ancient language his lips silently forming the words he was reading.
“This one’s full of seeds. Corn, I think. Huh. That one over there is full of copper.”
Gaven came over after reaching the ground and looking much relieved. “Copper is used for to make brass shell casings and tubing for our rifles.”
Jared had moved on to another row. “These are full of uniforms. I’m dying to open it and see which side.”
Gaven uses his mechanical hands to grasp the giant levers used to pry open the metal doors. After struggling for a moment to get leverage he easily opens the container with the uniforms. 
Jared turns on his suit lights and thousands of neatly stacked Elysian blue uniforms stare back at them. The style was not current but he recognised them as being the same ones his grandfather wore.
“These are old, but they were worn by my side when my grandfather served.”
Gaven moved on to another row and didn’t wait for a translation. He pried open the door and activated his own floods. Hundreds of stacked rifle cases filled the container. He used his secondary arms to pull one of them free. The SVK Arms label was etched into the aluminum case. Gaven held the case with his secondary arms and opened it with his own hands. 
It was a pristine plasma rifle that he had scavenged many times on the surface of Acheron. Must have been a hundred years old. He reached for a power pack strapped to his armor and slid it into the receptacle on the side of the weapon. It turned on and indicated a full charge.
When Jared walked up beside him he handed him the rifle.
“It’s an old PZ-14 rifle. Rugged and accurate. A damn antique yet my power pack can still activate it.”
Jared studied the weapon with a hard, soldier’s eye. He pointed it at a nearby container and squeezed off a round. The weapons discharged a bolt of plasma into the heavy metal container leaving a hole the size of someone’s head. He looked back at Gaven and smiled approvingly.
“I like it.”
Gaven had pulled another case and removed a second plasma rifle. He put his last charge into the weapon and then shouldered it using the cloth strap. 
“Wonder what else we can find in here?”
Jared shouldered his rifle and looked around. “I’m not sure why such an old facility still has power and breathable air. Makes me think they are still in business.”
Gaven motions the way forward with his secondary arm. “Let’s go for a walk then.”
________________






Chapter 15


B E T W E E N E R  S T A T I O N




Gaven took the lead, his ancient rifle held out as if he were clearing a trench. Jared followed him in a tactical fashion, covering their six. The main storage room they were in ended in a solid wall that they followed for a while until they were able to find one of the hidden doors. Before opening the door, Jared touched Gaven’s shoulder armor.
“Wait, if the next area is occupied we need to have our eyes open and be ready to retreat,” Jared said.
Gaven nodded and readied for a fire fight. Then he opened the hatch and the door popped open. The area inside was another storage room but it was well lit and they hear the sounds of heavy equipment moving around behind the newer looking storage bins. It was active.
Gaven pointed the way ahead and they proceeded with caution. There didn’t seem to be any alarms to announce their presence. But then why would there be. This entire facility is unknown to anyone fighting on the surface.
Gaven indicated to slow as he peered around the edge of a container. Jared waited for him to duck back around. Then he approached so that Gaven could speak without raising his voice. 
“There are two individuals ahead moving what I think are munitions into a cargo carrier,” Gaven said.
Jared nodded and then switched positions with him to see for himself. They were several dozen meters away and their backs were turned to him so he couldn’t really see their faces. Their black uniforms had the now familiar three circle stencil on their back. The uniforms didn’t look especially military. They looked more like worker overalls or something similar. They had back protection pads for heavy lifting and additional padding on their knees and elbows.
“They don’t look military to me. They look like warehouse workers,” Jared said, turning back around to look at Gaven. 
Gaven’s expression was neutral, “I think we need to record this. Do you have a camera on your suit all of mine are on my helmet?”
Jared nodded. He had a single lens recorder on his right shoulder. He could monitor it with a screen on his inner arm band. He quickly activated it and edged back around to record the workers. They were finishing up and seemed to be ready to close their container. He only got a few seconds of footage before ducking back.
“We need to get up on one of these containers where I can look down on them.”
Gaven pointed to the side of the nearest container. It actually had foot holds and a railing to grab onto. Gaven’s suit was too big to climb it without making undue noise and attracting attention. “I’ll go up and see if I can cross over to where they are,” Jared said, starting to climb.
“I’ll stay down here and cover you. Come back down as soon as you get something interesting. Don’t linger up there.”
Jared waved back to him as he slung his rifle over his shoulder and climbed. 
* * *
Jared crawled across the top of the storage container until he reached the edge that faced out into the open space where the two workers had gone. There were more forklifts scattered around and a dozen or so workers, most of whom were busy loading what looked like an Acheron personnel carrier. He switched on the camera and carefully panned around to take in the whole area. At the far side was an Elysian armored supply vehicle. It was pretty beat up from battle damage and didn’t appear to be serviceable. 
At the far end of the massive storage facility. Not only was this place active, they had vehicles from both sides in the same building. Not exactly evidence of collusion but it sure didn’t look right. He switched off the recorder and backed away so as to not attract attention. Looking up and around he tried to locate cameras that would give him away. The walls of the facility were smooth and featureless. Light came from panels above that were flush to the ceiling. 
There was what looked to him like a large entrance to the right, big enough to get cargo containers through. He watched the workers for a while, trying to see if the door would open and let the Acheron transport through. They all seemed to be just standing around waiting for something to happen. 
Jared considered going back down to report to Gaven when suddenly the large entrance opened up. The transporter started moving through it and disappeared. Another transporter came inside, this one empty. It was from the Elysian Army. He recognized its design. A new container on the far side of the room was opened and workers removed large boxes that Jared immediately identified. They were battle suit storage containers. Each one had half the parts needed for a single soldier’s suit.
He turned on his recorder and tried to zoom in on the boxes. The camera wasn’t designed for long range recording and he couldn’t get as close as he wanted. The workers loaded ten of the boxes onto the transporter and then it too scooted through the entrance.
Jared turned off his recorder and backed away from the edge again. He had about all he could get from this location. He looked around for a way to get closer and then opted to head back to Gaven’s location.
Peering over the edge of the container he didn’t see Gaven below. Shit. Where the hell did he go?
There was a scuffling of boots and he watched two workers walk down the row heading back to the open area where the transporters were. Jared waited until they were gone and then climbed back down to the floor, raising his rifle just in case he encountered more of the black clad workers.
More noise from behind him and he spun around quickly pointing the rifle. It was Gaven, standing there pointing his rifle back at him. For a moment Jared wondered if the he were going to shoot him. But the enemy soldier lowered his barrel and approached. His voice was just above a whisper. “I had to hide from those workers. Did you see anything up there?” 
Jared nodded. “Yeah, they are definitely supplying both sides of the conflict.”
Gaven smiled grimly. “Did you record it?”
Jared returned the smile. “We got to get out of here before,” he stopped talking when two workers appeared on either side of them. They looked more startled than either soldier. He could see they were human and they were no older than Gaven and himself. 
“Hey, how did you two get in here?” one of them asked. He spoke in the same language as the soldiers.
Gaven and Jared exchanged looks and then both of them instinctively flipped their rifles and batted both men unconscious. The workers fell without even lifting an arm to defend themselves. Both soldiers didn’t stand around waiting for more people to show up. They bolted back the way they came.
Out of breath after reaching the top of the staircase, Jared looked back down over the dark warehouse for any signs they were being pursued. The vast room was empty and dark.
“We don’t have much time. It won’t take them long to discover where we came from,” Jared offered.
Gaven headed back into the control room with his rifle ready, half expecting more workers or perhaps even Elysian troops to greet them. The room was empty. The same instruments were lit up as when they left, near as Jared could tell when he came through the door and closed it behind them. Maybe nobody would know they were here. He turned to face Gaven who was staring at the map he had drawn on the windows.
“Before I wipe this, you should record me. You know, telling your people that we’re not bugs or something,” Gaven said.
Jared nodded slowly and motioned for his friend to stand before the windows as he lined up the shot. He had to calm himself after the climb and the run back. Gaven seemed to be collecting his thoughts. 
“You ready?”
Gaven’s combat stare returned as he said, “Ready.”
Jared pushed record and held his camera steady as Gaven recounted what where he came from and his long, strange trip to war. As he listened Jared knew he was actively committing treason in the eyes of his people. He didn’t know if this was going to convince anyone of what the two of them had discovered. All he knew was that if he had seen this footage he would be inclined to believe what Gaven said.
Gaven paused, talking about his suit’s computer driven secondary arms. Jared suggested he take off his torso piece and try to prove that the extra arms were indeed mechanical. On the outside, they looked for all the world like real appendages. Gaven directed both mechanical arms down to make a temporary stand and then quickly removed his chest piece and his waist piece and stepped out of the suit. 
Even Jared was amazed at the engineering brilliance of the design. It was clear to him that the Acheron designers were infinitely more advanced than the engineers on Elysia. Jared reached out with his own suited arm and shook Gaven’s hand. Somehow he felt that it was important to note that neither man really hated the other, especially after what they both had discovered. 
“I’ll get some shots of these charts while you suit back up,” Jared said.
Gaven agreed and carefully put himself back into the secondary arms and sealed himself up. The wall monitors that looked down to the dark storage area morphed into clear windows behind Gaven. Jared looked up in time to see more black clad people coming up the staircase. He picked up his rifle and motioned for Gaven to turn around. 
The new men were clearly not workers. They wore security uniforms and were armed with weapons unfamiliar to Jared but not Gaven.
“Open fire, those are trooper guns,” Gaven said, as he blasted the walls. 
Both soldiers unloaded and took out three security guards along with most of the wall and all of the map Gaven had drawn.
Gaven moved carefully to the smoldering edge and peered down. There didn’t appear to be anyone else coming.
“Let’s go, we have to get back up and try to get out here,” Jared said.
They squeezed back into the lift and punched the nearly hidden controls to raise them back to the main floor. The lift opened and each man went to his helmet. Gaven stopped before he put his bug eyed helmet over his head. Jared held off donning his helmet.
“Jared. It was a pleasure meeting you. But I hope we never meet again.”
Jared held out his hand again and they shook. 
“I won’t fight you if we do meet. Hell, I don’t think I can fight at all any more.”
Gaven seemed to understand, even if he didn’t quite believe him. “You have to get that recording back to your people, those who believe the war is a lie.”
Jared smiled confidently. “I’ll make sure someone gets it back to Elysian. Don’t worry. What are you going to do?”
Gaven shrugged. “I’ll think of something. There’s someone I’ve been meaning to settle a score with.”
“That Polit Officer who killed your tribe?”
Gaven nodded grimly. They stared at each other one last time. Eye to eye, human to human. Finally they both put on and secured their helmets. 
The lift started to cycle again and it’s doors began to open. Both soldiers drew their ancient rifles and blasted the lift, emptying their clips and turning the lift to a smoldering wall of slag.
They changed clips and then looked up. The door that had dropped them into this room was still closed. Gaven and Jared both took aim above them and blasted away again. One of the sides melted away under the intense heat and left an opening large enough for them to climb through above the far wall. Gaven motioned for Jared to climb up on top of his burly mechanical shoulders to reach the ceiling.
Jared easily pulled himself clear of the room and then surveyed the closed off tunnel where they had first met. It was still dark and empty. He poked his helmet back into the hole and saw Gaven using his mechanical arms to punch holes in the side of the wall to climb up. In no time they were both standing in the darkened tunnel. 
Gaven found a bolder and used his mechanical arms to roll it over the hole in the fake floor. They both stepped back and reloaded again for the last time. Taking aim above the bolder they both unloaded on the rock wall and it collapsed over the hidden room. A tiny glimmer of light flared out of the gray wall. Gaven started hearing voices over his comm. He knew his squad mates were looking for him.
He pointed up to the opposite wall where it looked like they could blast through to the outside. Jared waved that he understood and again they combined their firepower to blow out an exit for Jared that lead outside.
Jared slid out the power clip from his rifle and handed it to Gaven. It would do him no use on his side and it rendered his ancient Acheron rifle inert. Gaven took the ammo clip and clipped it onto his suit.
Jared slung the rifle over his shoulder and started climbing. Gaven watched him while keeping an eye on the opening that led back to the base. When it was clear he could make it out, Jared turned to look back at Gaven. The bug suited man was already breaking apart the wall trying to reach his comrades in arms.
Jared wanted to wave back at him but realized it was dangerous to stick around. He pulled himself out of the rocky tunnel and into the darkness that was the nite side of Betwi-Two. The battlefield was quiet. No shelling, no gunfire lighting up the night. It felt like the war was over to him. In a way, it was. But as he slipped back into a nearby Elysian trench he was soon greeted by several pale blue and white clad soldiers.
________________






Chapter 16


B E T W I - T W O






Jared slid into a trench unannounced and startled a few soldiers milling about outside a bunker. They drew their rifles on him but not until after he had landed next to them on his feet. 
“Sergeant, we thought you were dead,” one of them uttered on the suit comm.
“Not yet. Where are the Victory Squads?” 
The second soldier raised his weary arm and pointed down the trench. In the distance Jared could see a transport idling its rockets in preparation for a sprint to orbit. He figured Hector was aboard. Good riddance, he thought.
“Gimme some ammo, I’m out,” Gaven said, holding up his empty rifle.
The first soldier took one of his ammo packs and shoved it into the waiting clip. He noticed the enemy rifle and said, “Hey, where did you find that old thing?”
Jared ignored the man and hustled down the trench still carrying his enemy rifle over his shoulder. He turned into the entrance of COMM-FIVER.
Selina was standing at the far side of the room when he cycled through the airlock. Her helmet was off and she froze, staring timidly at him as if she couldn’t tell who he was. He reached up and unsealed his helmet to take it off. A relieved smile played across her face. They hugged tightly for a long moment.
“I thought you were dead, soldier,” she whispered into his ear.
Her breathy voice sent a chill down his spine.
“We have to talk after we return to orbit.”
* * *
The Ioudas was parked in a stationary orbit around the silvery gas giant of Betweos itself. A thick, cylindrical starship snuggled up against the sleek troop transfer, refueling lines extended pumping in the gases needed to blast it back to Elysia. Tanker ships like the Káfsima endlessly circled Betweos, dipping low into the clouds to capture hydrogen to fuel the interplanetary starships. Its crew tirelessly evading enemy contact while living on a giant hydrogen sack. 
Jared and Shen’s units had been rotated back aboard the Ioudas. In that time he had not spoken to her about what he had done while separated from his unit. He lied to Stickman during his debriefing, telling the Political Officer that he had gotten stuck inside the enemy fort and was unable to blast his way out until the enemy had started boring their way through the collapsed rock towards him. Stickman didn’t seem to care much about the incident. 
Jared even asked him at one point if anyone had ever gotten trapped inside the enemy fortress before. Stickman shook his head and grunted. Jared took that to mean that he wasn’t interested in discussing the matter. A part of Jared wanted Stickman to act suspicious, as if he were suspecting that there might be more to tell about his adventure. But the man seemed bored with the debriefing and Jared didn’t press the matter.
“Sir?”
Stickman raised his eyes up. “What?”
“How many bugs have you killed?”
Stickman’s dark face was shadowed making him appear blacker than space. The whites of his eyes were steady and bright.
“Hundreds, maybe thousands. I’ve been here longer than anyone else, my body count is hard to beat.”
Jared agreed. “Sure is, sir”
“Look, don’t try and kill more than anyone else. Just do what you need to do to accomplish your mission. Understand?”
Jared lifted an eyebrow. That sounded remarkably human for a veteran soldier. Stickman smiled disarmingly. “Your body count will rise over time. Trust me. Won’t be long before you’re the top killer on this moon.”
Jared had to force himself not to flinch but instead gave his best, cocky smile. The mere thought of killing more humans turned his empty stomach. He recalled how similar Gaven was to himself in both age and temperament about the war. Stickman’s eyes narrowed as his smile faded.
“Get back to your unit. You’re going down to Betwi-Three next rotation.”
Jared snapped to attention and saluted.
* * *
The crew berthing on the Elpida was sparse and each soldier only had a narrow bunk with a pull curtain for privacy. Jared was lying on his bunk with his hands crossed behind his head. He was recalling his conversations with the enemy soldier. His right leg rocked back and forth nervously causing the springs to creak annoyingly.
The privacy curtain was open and other soldiers filed by with bits and pieces of their armor trying to polish it up for the next drop. Jared didn’t give a shit about all that anymore. He made sure his equipment was serviceable and but he didn’t try to get the gray regolith dust out of it or polish out any scuffs.
He was wearing a tank top and his briefs. The air on the starship was dry and cool but he was not cold. 
Selina slipped into his bunk and sat down at his legs. She was also in her sleep clothes - tank top and briefs. Lights out was in five minutes. Jared decided to go for it and tell her about what happened. He seriously doubted she would question him or turn him in. He pulled the curtain closed and sat up to whisper.
“You once told me you believed in the old stories about Acheron. Do you still believe them? That we’re fighting humans and not bugs?”
She nodded, her eyes narrowed suspiciously.
“I believe them now. I’ve met the enemy and he was not a bug, he was a man no older than us.”
Selina doesn’t know whether to believe him or not, he could read the confusion on her face. He slipped a hand inside his bed sheets and pulled out a three circle placard he stole from the hidden control room on Betwi-Two. She recognized the symbol and touches the placard with her soft fingers. Jared waited for someone to pass by and then spoke just loud enough for her to hear.
“I was in single combat with one of their soldiers inside the western wall of their fortress. We became trapped in an underground airlock that was not part of the fortress. He took off his helmet and he even speaks the same language as us. Can you believe that shit?”
Her dark eyes widened not from excitement but from anger. “You’re endangering our lives talking to me about this. I’m scheduled to return home with the Victory Squads.”
Jared said, “Someone must know what I have seen.”
He hold up a chip that he had concealed in his palm. He puts it into her hands and folds her fingers over it. She takes it and presses it against her bosom. 
“I never expected you, of all people, to come to me with something like this. I don’t know what to say.”
He stares into her eyes for a moment and then looks away. His foot is still rocking back and forth. She puts the chip into a tiny pocket in the waistband of her briefs.
“War changes people, Selina. Especially when you meet the enemy and find out he’s not some hideous alien, he’s just like you. I’m probably going to be promoted again. After that I’ll be leading the first wave of the Betwi-Three invasion. I don’t expect to survive that battle. The odds if not the government are against me.”
“But you’re one of the most experienced soldiers in the Army, surely you won’t be killed,” she pleaded.
“Experience is only good for a few months, after that your odds are about as good as a newby. You know that as well as I do. Most of my squad is heading back with you. I’m pretty sure I was suppose to go back now too.”
Selina wraps her arms around him and pulls him closer to her in a hug.
“I lied to you about my body count. I never killed any of the enemy. I’ve always believed they were humans like us. I volunteered to come here just so I could prove this and now you have proved it.”
He caressed her face with his hand. “How I envy you. I wish I had never killed anyone.”
“What are you going to do on Betwi-Three? You’ll have to fight or you will die.”
His blue eyes gave away his intentions and she started to cry. 
“You’re never coming back, are you?”
He didn’t answer, just wiped away her tears but the flood was more than he could stop. They hugged tightly. He hadn’t thought what he was doing was suicidal until now. Volunteering to go off to some far away moon and get killed while killing others seemed so romantic not that long ago. Every kid’s backyard dream whom ever picked up a stick and pretended it was a laser gun. Not to mention all the heroic holographic dramas with their dramatic music and endless supply of ammo for the heroes. 
But real war was not like that at all. It was exhausting, stinky, and terrifying all the damn time. It was kill or be killed. It was losing the person next to you and still pressing the attack. Even if that person was your lover or your best friend, or both. War was now a special kind of hell for him. He was no longer just exterminating heartless pests. He was taking human lives and that was unconscionable.
“I’ll do my best to get back.”
She continued sobbing on his shoulder and he held her tightly in his arms. She was the best thing that had ever happened to him and he’d probably never live to share a life with her.
*  *  *
Private Hector had come down the narrow corridor looking for Jared. He didn’t want to part ways for good the way they had. They had known each other since they were both in diapers. Before Jared had left for the war they were as close as brothers. He couldn’t throw that friendship away so easily. As he strolled down the rows of bunks he overheard snippets of conversations. Some were babbling into recording devices to loved ones back home and a few were obviously making love to those they were with. Hector stopped when he heard Jared’s voice, low but understandable.
He spoke of meeting the enemy in person and communicating with him. Treason! Hector wanted to reach into the bunk and pull his friend out and beat the living shit out of him. His fists were clenched and sweaty as his face reddened in anger. He turned around sharply and walked away, resolute in what he must do.
* * * 
Political Officer Lacithe was still at his terminal when his room buzzer went off. He looked up from his screen filled with soldier’s dispatches, and barked permission to enter. A red faced kid stepped inside the tiny office. His fists were balled and his normally pallid skin was flush with anger.
“Private Hector, sir. I have to report a traitor.”
Lacithe’s eyebrows narrowed and a smile formed on his thin lips. He lived for such moments. He sat up and gave the kid his undivided attention.
* * *
Jared and Selina shared a final night of love in each other’s arms. She woke early and had to scamper back to her berth before anyone noticed her missing. It was hard for her to leave and even harder for him to let her go. He wasn’t due to drop for a few more days, but she was shipping out later in the shift. 
Jared took his time getting his shaving kit out and covering his sullen face with white shaving cream. He looked at himself in the tin mirror and realized he felt as bad as he looked. And he didn’t look good. His hair was cut short to uniform specifications but the lines under his eyes seemed to be permanent. He felt and looked twenty years older than he was.
As he started dragging the razor across his cheek he felt the presence of someone and looked away from the mirror. It was Hector.  The kid had a smug look on his face as if he knew something Jared didn’t. It was annoying and after their last meeting, Jared was ready to beat some sense into him.
“There’s the Hero of Betwi-Two.”
“What do you want?”
“I just wanted to congratulate you on your outstanding battlefield valor before I left.”
Jared wiped off his razor on the gray towel around his neck and then went back to shaving. “Going home so soon?”
“I know, I really want to stay. Head on down to Bee Three with you. I hear it’s going to be a hell of a big fight.”
“Too bad you can’t join us.”
Hector seemed oblivious to the sarcasm. Jared cleaned off his razor again and shook his head. “Say hello to Trille for me.”
Hector smiled in that annoying way that Jared always hated. As if he thought he was winning. “Oh, I will. I forgot to tell you before, but we’re engaged.” 
Jared stopped shaving and stared at Hector in the mirror. The smile was insufferable now. He turned to face his former friend.
“I hope you have a long and happy life together. Maybe your kids will come here and fight like their old man.”
Hector nodded in appreciation, completely ignorant of the dark sarcasm. “Thanks! They will come here, I can promise you that. Well, I’ll let you continue getting ready. I hear you’re promoting again.”
“I’ll be leading my squad during the invasion.”
The look of pure jealousy on Hector’s face sickened Jared.
“Man, how I envy you.”
Jared continued shaving. “Goodbye, Hector.”
Hector stepped back to leave and then said, “Goodbye, old friend.” He turned on his heels and briskly walked down the corridor. Jared watched him leave. Something just wasn’t right about that. He usually tried to make up with Jared after they had fought. Hector always wanted to be sure things were still good between them. But that goodbye was said in relief. Like he didn’t ever expect to see him again and was fine with it. Jared shrugged and finished his shave. If things went the way he hoped, Hector and Trille’s children would never come here to fight. Nobody would ever come here to fight again.
________________








Chapter 17


I O U D A S


The Ioudas hung in orbit of Betwi-Three like a rusty needle poised to puncture the orange and yellow moon. The pipes and electrical conduits that ran along the sides of the starship were rusted from continued exposure to the sulfur volcanoes of the third moon. Betwi-Three was the most volcanically active moon of the solar system. Several massive mountains vented sulfuric gas and solid ejecta into the moon’s orbit. Much of it was collected into orange and dark red rings. 
The deterioration of the ship was a metaphor for the failing Acheron Army. It’s equipment and its soldiers were wearing thin from the battle. There were just days left in the campaign before Betweos moved out of reach. Before the planet and it’s moons were closer to the enemy for an unbearably long stretch of time. This was the last stand of the Acheron Army. Every starship, every piece of equipment, every soldier and every weapon would be used to defend the violent moon, wreaked by the tidal forces from Betweos itself.
The Ioudas’s massive stardrives were silent, awaiting the day when they will be lit for the return voyage to Acheron.
* * *
Inside the engine compartment of the Ioudas was a dark and foreboding place. Condensation falls like rain from the spinning coolant pipes far above the deck. A layer of black grime covers everything in Engineering. There are few crewmen in the area and Gaven easily slips past them to enter an even more secluded maintenance room. He wore the black inner armor suit and it afforded him perfect cover in the shadows as he waited for Shen to join him. 
They had to constantly seek out new and secluded spots to screw or risk being caught. It had been a while since they did it in Engineering. Shen hated the humidity and the oily grease. Gaven considered all that bonus stimulation for what they would be doing.
A low rumble from nearby machinery and the occasional pressure release from above ensured this particular hiding spot was well masked from prying eyes and ears. Gaven turned his head upon hearing the dogs of the hatch opening. It was Shen, wearing her black service uniform with red piping. They embrace and immediately start kissing and tearing each other’s clothes off. Naked bodies soaked from perspiration fall to the floor on top of their clothes, grinding away in love’s sweet dance.
Neither one of them noticed a red, flashing light far above them. The silent eyes of Hacker were everywhere.
* * *
Inside the Command and Control room of the Ioudas was a separate, cypher locked room where only Political Officers worked. Even the entrance was blocked like a light tight room with an s-curved wall. Inside, every wall was covered with monitors showing the views from hundreds of security cameras all around the starship. The views cycled through automatically, searching for any signs of inappropriate activity or nefarious deeds. 
Hacker sat upright in a padded chair at the center of the room. His headset could be patched to any monitor by simply focusing his attention on it. Bits of audio from conversations all around the ship echoed in his ears as he glanced around at different monitors. His attention span was highly focused to the point where once he was locked on a particular screen, he simply closed his eyes and listened. Unless the people he was monitoring were doing something that warranted visual inspection. 
Dark screens often drew his attention as it usually indicated someone was not supposed to be in an area. There were always red lights along the floors of every room on the ship. It was never truly dark, anywhere. A dark monitor caught his eye and he focused on listening to it. It was an empty equipment room where he had found a shorted camera the week before. It was working now but all he could make out were mechanical sounds of cooling systems somewhere deep in the engine room. As he focused on the whirring fans and humming equipment he began to pull out another sound amongst the chaos.
It was the rhythmic sound of humans procreating. His ears were particularly honed to seek out that sound for it usually meant someone was screwing around where they were not supposed to be. The monitor was mostly dark. Unusual, even for a maintenance room.
He adjusted the gain on the microphone and tweaked the brightness of his monitor but could not get a lock on who it was. Every camera had the ability to record in the infra-red wavelength. He calmly switched to IR and was able to positively ID Gaven and Shen. They had found a new place to get off, at least new to Hacker. He cataloged the room and the time in case they were dumb enough to return for another go at it. Then he listened and he watched. Ever vigilant.
* * * 
Gaven pulled himself free and laid back down on the cold, greasy floor. He was spent and still breathing heavy. Shen closed her legs and started patting around for her uniform pants. She started dressing immediately while he just lay there, slowly relaxing in the dark. His eyes scanned the ceiling for the sign of a security camera he knew was up there somewhere. It was either off or broken because he couldn’t see it’s steady red light.
“I found something in the Western Wall area when I was trapped there.”
She pulled up her pants and looked over at him. He was staring at her in the dark and she could barely make out the dark pits of his eyes. His voice was low, barely audible over the din of the machinery.
“There’s a Betweener Base under the Fort. Perfectly preserved, complete with shipping documents and everything. Looks like it hasn’t been used in hundreds of years.”
He couldn’t see the concern on her pretty face but he could hear it in her timid voice. “You didn’t tell anyone did you?”
“No, I’m not that stupid,” he quipped.
She pulled her top out from under his sweaty back and put it on. He watched her as he talked. “If the enemy ever captures that fort, they could find that hidden base. That would be something, wouldn’t it?”
She seemed disinterested in what he was saying, focused more on sliding her boots on. He was still laying naked on the floor, gently caressing the chilled skin on his chest.
“Better not say anything more, they are probably listening,” Shen said. She looked around the empty room and folded her arms over her chest.
“We’re cool. I rewired the camera signal to the head.”
She looked down at him and giggled.
* * *
Hacker heard Shen’s laughter on the playback as he turned to face her in his office. Her image and that of a naked Gaven are displayed on the large monitor behind Hacker.
“You’ve done well, sergeant. You know, you could have a future as an operative on this ship.”
Her brows furled, “No thanks, sir.”
Hacker shook his head regretfully. “What a shame.”
Shen glanced at her lover on the monitor and a tear slowly slid down her cheek. She wiped it away before Hacker could notice it.
* * *
Gaven was sitting on his bunk, cleaning his armor for the next battle when he heard someone approach. He glanced up just as Polit Officer Hacker stepped in front of him with his polished boots. Gaven stood up at attention. Hacker was wearing his stiff black dress uniform with the red piping. The cut was crisp and fitted perfectly to his lean form. 
Hacker took the leg armor from Gaven and brought it up to examine it. His dark, impenetrable eyes drew slowly over the weathered armor and his black, gloved hand ran along the smooth outer surface. His head cocked at an angle that suggested approval and he handed the piece back to Gaven.
“At ease, sergeant.”
Gaven relaxed his stance but not his guard. He looked Hacker in the eye.
“I understand you had quite an adventure down on B-2. Something about being trapped by a landslide?”
“Yes, sir. It’s all in my after action report.”
Hacker lowered his voice and stared deep into Gaven’s soul. “I know you’ve seen the Betweener station below our fort.”
Gaven didn’t so much as blink. If he was looking for some sign of weakness, Gaven wasn’t going to give him the satisfaction.
“What I don’t know is who else has seen the base? Care to elaborate on your story, sergeant?”
Gaven slowly looked away, forward and didn’t respond.
Hacker narrows his eyes and gets right in Gaven’s personal space. It was the same thing he did to new recruits and Gaven never let it bother him then or now.
“I know all about what you saw. Do you know how I know?”
Gaven didn’t budge. Kept staring ahead at infinity. Fuck this asshole, he thought.
“Sergeant Shen informed me all about it.”
That nearly got a rise out of Gaven. He continued to stare straight ahead.
Hacker backed away from him slowly and then turned smartly on his heels and left. Gaven let out his breath and noticed his hands were balled tightly into fists. He was seconds away from taking a swing at the Polit Officer. But he stood his ground. He didn’t give the prick the satisfaction of knowing how much of a gut punch he had been dealt. After Hacker had left the deck Gaven sat down and tossed his leg armor across the room as hard as he could. It clattered loudly on the metal deck. Causing the nearest soldier to open his curtain and see what was going on.
Gaven had been trying to think of a way to get Hacker since the day he was abducted into the Army. He hated everything about the man. Hated his sickly pallid skin. Hated his naturally red hair for its in your face reminder of the Acheron Army’s primary color. Hated his smug, above everyone attitude. But most of all, he hated the man for being The Man incarnate. 
How anyone can be that much up the state’s ass and still be breathing was completely beyond Gaven. Maybe he was a robot? The perfect tool of the government willing to execute anyone in order to maintain order. Fuck that bastard. Gaven would show him who’s really in charge of this god forsaken war. It wasn’t the government and it wasn’t that hack. 
Sitting in his bunk with the curtains pulled shut he used his combat knife to carve a message into his chest plate. Something nobody would understand except for Hacker. Three goddamned circles. Underneath the circles he painted his fate in blood red - Destined to Die!
* * *
An hour before the scheduled prep time for his drop, Gaven was sneaking back into the engine storage room where him and Shen had last screwed. He was wearing his all black, rubberised suit liner and carrying a satchel. After he entered the room he activated a localised EMP stick and pointed it at the security camera above his head. The red light went off instantly. Then he took out the bundle of rifle energy packs he had stolen from the armory. He had been taking them for months and keeping them well hidden from prying eyes. Nobody had reported them missing because they were at war and energy packs were distributed like candy bars. 
The bundle was rigged so that when he activated a fuse it would set all of the packs off at once in a deadly explosion. Running through this room was the main coolant line for the star drive. Rip a big enough hole into this baby, and the whole damn drive would overheat and ignite the ship like a flare in the darkest night.
There wouldn’t be time to get clear of ship. Everyone left on board would be killed. Including Polit Officer Hacker. But that won’t be all who will die. The Ioudas would be flying in formation for this drop with a second transfer ship. The Acheras would be dropping her soldiers at the same time in a last ditch effort to overwhelm the enemy defenses and take the moon. 
The two starships would be spitting distance apart for the drop. If he blew up the Ioudas, the Acheras would not be able to escape damage and would be racked by enough shrapnel to also be destroyed. There would be no way for anyone to return home. Those that were not killed in the fight would die on the third moon, eventually.
If his planned worked he would end this fight for Hacker and his beloved planet. Gaven set the remote and patted the bomb for good luck. Then he left the room, never to return.
________________


Chapter 18
E L P I D A


Jared’s unit reported for duty in their medium weight armor. That could mean only one thing. They wouldn’t be jumping on Betwi-Three, they would be manning armored vehicles. Tanks were only used on the third moon for some damn reason that Jared had long forgotten. He hated being trapped inside them during a battle. He had been to Betwi-Three once before as a runner. Responsible for personally taking coded drives and maps to the area commander.
He rode inside the cramped, white painted walls of the tank with the crew of five who worked the main guns, steered the lumbering beast and commanded it from the top copula. There wasn’t enough room for a passenger but they let him curl up around the main turret if he promised to stay out of everyone’s way. 
Rattling around inside that cold metal coffin made him yearn for suit warfare where he could roam free across the ice fields and see the battle unfold before him. Trapped inside a tank with no windows and no idea what the hell was going on around him was a new kind of hell that he had never imagined before. So much of this war was like that for him now. If he had known about how nasty the whole affair was he probably wouldn’t have signed up. If he had known about who the enemy really was, he was pretty sure he would have never glamorised the fighting. All those games of capture the flag with Hector and their other friends would never have happened. He would have found some other outlet for his energy, like organized sports.
But that was not how his life had played out. He had trained with corn stalks and sticks until he was old enough to join the Army. By the time he was actually in the shit, it was too late. The insanity and violence of war was more than he could have ever dreamed of as a kid. It was not glamorous or heroic in any way. It was tiring and terrifying and he never realized how pointless it was in the end.
Now that he understood it was a manufactured war, created by the very companies that designed and built the weapons they used. He could no longer joyously participate in the wanton death and destruction.
As he sat in a chair and listened to the tank batallion commander drone on about objectives, he remembered the day he had met Saburo at the recruiting station. They were both so young and innocent. Especially big old Saburo. Jared felt an immediate kinship with the larger soldier. There was something comforting in knowing that a gentle giant of a man would have your back when the fighting got intense. Good old Saburo.
The smiling image of his friend on that day was replaced with the torn and bloody carcass littered all over the storage room on Betw-One. Jared’s blue eyes had long ago lost their sparkle and now they stared forward devoid of emotion. He wanted to cry for Saburo, but tears would not come.
“Attention the ship, attention the ship. Sergeant Jared report to Polit Officer Lacithe’s office. That is all.”
Jared heard his name over the PA and snapped out of his thoughts. 
* * *
Standing before Lacithe’s office door, Jared touched the release pad with his hand and it slid aside. The Polit Officer was sitting calmly at his desk dressed in black, padded clothes. His pale white face was looked up with annoyed patience. The blue hair was thick and spiked on top of his head. Jared always hated the blue hair. It was so over the top. 
“Come in, Sergeant.”
Jared stepped inside the cramped room and stood at attention as the door slid shut behind him. “Sergeant Jared reporting as ordered, sir.”
Lacithe sat there looking at him for a long moment. Jared kept his eyes fixated forward. He could hear the slight nasal sound of the man breathing. 
“You’re being promoted to Sergeant Major. Congratulations.”
Jared was startled enough to glance down at him. He shrugged like he had nothing to do with it. 
“At ease, Sergeant Major.”
Jared relaxed and looked into the man’s crystal clear blue eyes. There was no life in those eyes. Just the heartless, indifferent eyes of someone who didn’t care about anyone. 
“Your unit will be going in with the Eighty-sixth Armor Regiment. This is the final battle. There is only one objective. Take back the moon at all costs. Understood?”
Jared’s voice was loud in the tiny room. “Aye, sir.”
Lacithe stood up and came around his desk to stand in front of Jared. He was close enough to be in Jared’s personal space. The attempt at intimidation didn’t have any effect on Jared. 
Lacithe moved in closer. They were eye to eye and neither man blinked.
“I know what you saw on Betwi-Two.”
Jared didn’t flinch. He knew there was nothing Lacithe could do to him that was worse than sending him back into combat.
“That Betweener base was abandoned years ago. Every cycle builds over the top of the previous one’s battlefield. No land is sacred in this system, unless you own it on the return.”
Jared listened but didn’t react to what he was being told. The Polit Officer didn’t seem to know what Jared had really seen down there.
“The enemy usually thrives in tunnels, I’m surprised they haven’t used the old bases for laying their eggs.”
He doesn’t know. How could he not know the truth? That must mean the truth is unknown to everyone fighting. 
“You didn’t see any evidence of that down there did you? Because that would be valuable intelligence.”
Jared shook his head slowly. Lacithe backed away and seemed bored again. He circled back around behind his desk and pulled open a drawer. Pulling out a set of sergeant major stripes he set them on the desk.
“You were supposed to return home with the others in your squad. But I can’t afford to lose you. You’re our best fighter. We need you to help take back this moon.”
Jared remained stone faced.
“Go ahead, take the stripes and report for duty,” Lacithe said.
Jared scooped up the stripes and came to attention.
“I don’t expect to see you again,” Lacithe said.
Jared’s stoic expression nearly broke. That was direct.
“Until after the battle’s over,” Lacithe added.
Jared did an about face and touched the sensor on the door. It slid open and he drew a breath of fresh air from the corridor. 
“Happy hunting, Sergeant Major,” Lacithe said, mockingly.
Jared stepped out of the room and took off down the hallway, fists balled tightly.
* * *
The LIFO troops were boarding the shuttle that would take them back home on another transfer ship. It was a long line of still raw recruits being sent back on the eve of perhaps the most important battle. Jared held a triangular, folded Elysian flag in his hand as he scanned faced for Hector. Every dark haired kid turned to look when he hollered Hector’s name. Only one of them actually was Hector and he turned around as Jared approached.
“Take this, it’s Trille’s. She loaned it to me before we left,” Jared said coldly.
Hector took the flag from him and looked confused.
“I may not make it back and I wanted her to have it.”
The line moved again and Hector’s group began to board. He held up the flag and nodded. Then he turned around and disappeared inside. Jared knew he’d never see his childhood friend again and he was okay with that. The line seemed to refill itself like a never ending factory assembly line.
Jared had to find Selina before she boarded. He scanned faces amongst the soldiers as he strode past them. Every cycle had survivors, people sent back to ensure the homeland wouldn’t lose hope in what was a seemingly endless war. 
Selina was one of the lucky ones and he desperately needed her to make it out so she could break the news about the coverup. Show the world that they were fighting humans and not bugs. He was slowly coming to grips with the fact that he would never return home. He would never see the clear blue skies over the green and yellow corn fields, never breath clean air, never see his parents and never know a life without the war.
Selina turned her head upon hearing the commotion he was making by pressing past the debarking soldiers. He saw her face and nearly started bawling. 
She turned as he arrived and they embraced in a hug. 
“I thought I’d never see you again,” she whispered into his ear.
He held her tightly. “Lacithe doesn’t know. You’ve got to get into the company - SVK Foods. They run both sides of the war. Even the military is unaware.”
She nodded as her eyes started to well with tears. 
“Jared I have to tell you something.”
He pulled her away at arm's length. “I’m pregnant.”
She tried to smile but was stopped by the astonished look on his face. Jared grabbed her head and pulled her to him in a deep kiss. Followed by another close hug.
“I love you,” he whispered.
His voice sent a chill down her spine. “I love you too.”
The line started to move and everyone filed past them into the departing shuttle. Seline backed away, she had to board. Jared won’t let go of her. He kept staring hard at her like he was trying to fix her face into his memory. The line gets smaller behind them.
“I have to go,” Selina said. She let go of him and backed away. Jared reluctantly lets her go. He wants to run after her and join her on the shuttle. But he can’t. Above the hallway is are video monitors and at the other end of them was no doubt Polit Officer Lacithe.
Jared watched Selina board and look back at him one last time. She was too far away to see his wet eyes. He was barely holding himself together. The airlock seal slid shut and he could no longer see his lover. Jared glanced up again at the monitors and turned away. She’s pregnant. A small part of him would live on and with any luck that kid would never have to come to this terrible place in space. At least not to fight.
* * *
Jared sat on his bunk with a metal chestplate in his lap. He was carving three circles into the gray paint with his combat knife. The symbol of the Resistance. The symbol of the company responsible for the war. Nobody around him made the connection. If they did, they wisely didn’t approach him about it.
Drop time was in two hours. It seemed like an eternity. He had way too much  time to think about it. To think about if he could fight anymore. To think about how he could avoid it for as long as possible. To ponder the fact that not fighting might lead to his immediate death. He remembered the night before his first drop. He tossed and turned on his bunk, never able to get to sleep. He kept thinking it might be his last few hours alive. What do you do when there’s a good chance you would die in a matter of hours? Do you remember your entire life, the good times and the bad? Do you regret things you did or didn’t do? Do ponder the afterlife? Do you pray to a higher being that you might live? Jared did none of those things. He just lay there staring at the ceiling and waited for the night shift to end. He listened to the mechanical sounds of the ship’s engines and the air vents. He was convinced he wouldn’t die. He was still a young and confident man who believed that he was invincible. That no matter what happened on that first combat drop, it would not be him that was killed.
Jared’s heavy eyes glanced at the other soldiers preparing their armor for the drop. They were all veterans of many drops and countless battles and engagements. Each one had their own routines and none of them looked around and noticed that he or she was being watched. Some listened to fast, loud music on personal players, others seemed to be telling themselves a mantra, over and over in their heads while a few of them bent to the knees and prayed.
Jared was never particularly religious. He went through the motions on the day of rest and recited passages from the book, but he never thought about what happened after he died. What kid does? He was too busy living in this life to ponder what came after it.
Tonight it seemed, was his night to ponder it. He wasn’t concerned about where he would go or what he would have to answer for his actions in this life. He knew what he had sent in motion was blasphemous to his people’s beliefs and definitely treasonous for a soldier. But he also knew that dead men couldn’t be tried for treason. At least not in this life. Tonight he decided that if he were to be judged for his actions in the afterlife, he would be content to accept any eternal damnation given.




Chapter 19


B E T W I  - T H R E E,  S I D S I N I  B A S E




Betwi-Three was the farthest moon from the silver gas giant. A frozen ball of blue and white ice with a thin atmosphere and no internal source of heat. It’s surface was ancient and fractured with fissures in the ice that sometimes dipped kilometers below the surface. 
Sidsini Base was a series of frozen trenches that snaked out from a former river bed. The tendrils of frozen water ran parallel to an icy ridgeline at the base of a mountain. A wide, flat sea of blue ice extended away to the shortened horizon of the moon.
Ammunition and power packs litter the trench and a fine layer of frost covered them and the suited warriors standing sentry. Gaven’s squad was spread out every ten paces, weapons perched over the top of the trench. Their suits were hastily painted white on their upper surfaces. The dark gray paint was still visible making them look weathered despite not having been on station for long. A few of them were covered in thermal blankets designed to mask their power signatures. It was only a side benefit that they also provided a insulating layer over the cold metal of their suits. 
Steam clouds trailed upward from behind their helmets but froze before getting far. Frozen ice fell onto the armor suits and covered them like snow flakes. There is a growing storm on the horizon, it already blocks out the first third of the inky black sky. Betweos itself lingers above them filling two thirds of the sky. Gaven never got tired of staring at the silver and gray clouds of the gas giant. It was like a hulking, silent sentry that watched every battle with baleful indifference. 
Gaven’s chest plate was etched with the three circle design he and Jared had found on the second moon. The white paint didn’t obscure it. He wanted to just use paint but couldn’t steal it before heading to the surface. You couldn’t see the circles unless you were standing close to him. Which was probably a good thing knowing how Hacker scrutinized every damn little thing they did.
The storm was quickly moving in on them. He studied the horizon using his internal view screens. Switching from radar to IR and back to visual in a consistent pattern looking for any signs of an enemy drop. 
The situation finally bared mentioning to his command. 
“This is Redstar Five, the storm is closing fast on our position. Over?”
A burst of static emphasised the poor atmospherics. “Copy Redstar Five, Standby for Seekers. Enemy contacts at the outer perimeter.”
Gaven acknowledged him and switched back to his squad freq.
“Heads up Saps, form on me.”
The five nearest soldiers ambled over to Gaven in their four armed battle suits. They have all been hastily painted white and each has a red number stenciled over the paint on their upper torso. Gaven eyes them with his standard video. They all look like veteran bad asses to him. Too bad his enthusiasm for killing had waned lately.
“Enemy contacts at the outer perimeter. Expect Seekers any time now. Check your flares.”
Each soldier had clusters of four inch long pipes that contained anti-Seeker flares. They all hit switches on their upper arms that activate the flares. Gaven eyes each soldier with the careful scrutiny of a veteran killer. Many of them had reactive armor plates attached over their regular armor making them look like over testosterone filled bad asses.  
One of them had a large, articulated cannon on his back. The man tested its auto tracking on his comrades. It was more than a little unnerving to have a huge barrel swing in your direction, even if it didn’t fire on you. The man seemed satisfied it was operational and secured it above his head like some ancient banner carrier.
“Alright, take your positions. It’s play time.”
They all climb back on the icy rim of the trench and carefully aim their weapons toward the approaching storm. The man with the cannon has an assistant loader who is responsible for reloading the cannon with energy packs. He has them attached to his own suit and arms like some kind of extra armor plating.
Gaven’s inner suit is supplanted by a fur lined helmet designed to help keep him warmer in the hostile cold of the moon. His breath still freezes coming out of his mouth as he stares dull eyed at this screens.
His tracker lit up with multiple bogies. “Seekers, incoming!” he yelled into his mic.
Acheron troops start opening fire out of reflex. They can no more nail a Seeker than hit a flying insect, but that doesn’t stop them from trying. Flares start shooting off around them as the tiny rocket propelled Seekers try to break their lines and blow them to oblivion.
Seekers were finned explosive tipped rockets designed to locate a soldier and take him out autonomously. The Acheron soldiers all hated them. They were a deadly standoff weapon that induced fear and broke down discipline. Gaven sprayed the thin air in front of him with rounds and managed to take out one Seeker.
Brilliant white flares lured most of the Seekers up and away from the trenches where they blew themselves up hitting the glowing gases of the flares. One poor soldier is not as lucky as the others. His flares malfunction and a Seeker locks onto his center mass and impales him from behind. He never saw it coming. The insidious Seeker warhead split in two, one tunneling up through his spine to explode near his head from the inside and the other reams itself down one leg and explodes. Bits of bone and blood eject behind it and freeze in the thin air of the moon. It’s a bloody mess and it just pisses off everyone within view of the carnage. The man had time to let one sickening scream out before dying. It echoed in everyone’s helmet as they fought. 
The last Seeker exploded above them into a flare and the battle got quiet inside Gaven’s helmet. The winds from the storm buffeted against him as he tried to make out enemy contacts to shoot. He knew they were coming. It was a sure as death.
Gaven tapped the top of his head with his right arm. It was his visual signal to the others around him that the attack was imminent. The winds picked up and anything not secures began to flap around. Gaven could feel something tapping his right leg and realized one of his added armor shields was loose. He bend down far enough to slap it secure against his leg. Before he could right himself Elysian troops started materializing through the snowy winds.
Flashes of light began popping off randomly as the enemy started firing. Gaven’s squad immediately returned the courtesy in kind. The thin air around them quickly filled with criss crossing beams of deadly energy weapons. Gaven got off several kill shots before finally ducking down under the rim and letting his blast shield absorb some hits.
Then he rose up and levelled another enemy soldier as he was about to jump into the trench. The dead soldier fell down in front of Gaven, face up. Gaven could only see the outline of the young man’s face inside the man’s helmet. It was not clear enough to recognize him but all Gaven could see was the face of Jared. His friend.
Unnerved by the image, he pushed the dead man’s body away from him and refocused on the fight. There were fewer enemy soldiers advancing and all of them were easily taken down by Gaven’s squadmates. Gaven’s screens started shorting and then went blank for a couple of seconds. That could only mean one thing. Battle tanks.
The screens winked back on and painted several large targets approaching through the storm. Tanks always hit them with EM bursts before their attack, hoping to catch someone off guard by not having their radiation shields up. Electromagnetic bursts would fry all the electronics of a unprotected suit. When the tanks first appeared on the battlefields of Betwi-One, they caused unprecedented death and destruction by simply suffocating countless numbers of Acheron soldiers in their own suits.
Eventually the Acheron techs figured out how to counter them and now all they got was a temporary black out before the tanks engaged them. It was a tip off that in this case, Gaven was not prepared for. There was no mention of Battle Tanks in the pre-strike briefings. 
The ground began to rumble with the weight of the tracked metal monsters as they lumber closer. Gaven waved to his squad and made a circular motion with his hand. It was the signal to expect a vertical attack. Elysian forces nearly always sent in the tanks and then deployed troops with retro packs above them. Air and ground combined attack, as old as armed combat.
The high winds continue to blow through the battlefield. Gaven has to brace himself behind a shield. It protects him from a near miss shot from one of the battle tanks. The winds speeds will hamper an aerial attack. Maybe we’ll get luck and they won’t risk coming out.
Gaven slides down into the trench and keeps his weapon pointing up, just in case. Before he could take two steps the skies parted with multiple Elysian soldiers screaming down on them with retros on full power. Gaven squeezes off several shots, nailing at least one poor soul right between his legs. Another enemy soldier got off a decent hit on Gaven’s shoulder armor plates. The armor was heaviest on top for just such attacks and it didn’t penetrate. Gaven returned fire immediately and the hapless blue and white figure was blown apart and fell in a sik rain of frozen blood and bits of armor.
Fighting in the trench was intense as the battle tanks lumbered closer. Gaven knew once they got over his trench they would be to the main fort in a matter of minutes. He had to take out as many as possible now or they would suffer tremendous losses later.
He fought off another flying enemy soldier and then proceeded to prepare an anti-tank round as the blunt nose of the first tank appeared over the top of him. He had one, maybe two attempts to disable the tank before it moved past. The armor on their bellies was just about impenetrable by Acheron weapons. His only chance was to hit the rocker arms where the treads attached to the main body.
His first shot glanced off the bottom of the tank and impacted the ice trench causing one of the inner walls to collapse in a crumble of ice stones. The tank teetered on the edge and started to fall into the trench. Gaven took a second shot at the inside attachment point of the tilted tread. It was blown away completely, disabling the tank above him. 
The trooper with the cannon seized the opportunity and started blasting away at the stuck battle tank. Gaven scrambled out of the way and watched for one brief moment as the tank was exploded into a molten pile of metal. Gaven praised the gunner and went over the top of the trench to attack a second one.
* * *
Gaven slogged his way down the icey trench until he came across another gunner team. It was Shen and her loader Jade hustling into a new firing position. Gaven follows them and stands guard over them as Shen lines up her cannon to get the next tank as it crawls to the edge of their trench. Jade loads the breach with an armor piercing round and pats Shen’s helmet.
Shen squeezes off the round and it spirals into the tank, gutting it like stuck animal. Elysian crew fall out of it covered in glowing plasma. Gaven plinks them off with his rifle and the three of them are on the move again, trying to get in range to fire on the next tank.
Shen pulls herself up over the nearest trench wall and aligns her cannon on an approaching tank. Jade struggles to get a round free and loaded as the tank looms closer. “Hurry, I’m gonna miss it!” Shen spat into her microphone.
Jade responded with the helmet tap and Shen fired.
The round clipped the front tread section and blew a huge gash in the side of the tank. Crewmen jumped out, firing hand weapons at them. Gaven easily dispatched them, their lifeless bodies falling into the icy trench. The tank was stalled over the trench and acted like a bridge for advancing troops to cross.
“Aim for the wall ahead of the tank and take it out,” Gaven directed.
Shen nodded inside her helmet at she felt Jade reload her cannon. 
“Firing.”
The second shot destroyed the face of the wall and the battle tank slipped into the trench. Gaven picked off several Elysian soldiers trying to run across the top of the burning tank. 
“Put another round into the rear,” Gaven hollered into his mic.
Jade tapped Shen’s head and sat back. Shen fired the second shot and the three of them immediately started to move as the tank burned bright as a sun.
Wet snow pounded their armor from the high winds and clinged to it like white mud as they hurried on to the next battle tank threat. Gaven covered their advance with his rifle. The location where they had fired the two shots was destroyed by a shell that sent burning metal and chips of ice everywhere.
Shen and Jade fall into position to take a shot on a new battle tank coming around the burning one. Shen has to sit up to get the angle she needs. Her four arms balance her as she aims the massive cannon barrel. Gaven grabs Jade and tosses her aside and then kicks Shen’s back legs out from under her as a Seeker whips past them and impacts down range. Shen curses and tries to sit upright to get her shot.
It doesn’t line up the way she wants it to. More cursing. Jade had loaded the cannon and offers her body as a balancing point for the weapon. Shen rests the barrel across Jade’s armored back and takes the shot.
The tank is struck, but not fatally and it’s massive cannon barrels track towards them to return fire. “Damnit, I could have had him!” 
        Gaven takes aim at the tank’s fire control cluster and blasts it with a continuous stream of fire. The tank’s armor is weak around the sensor and it’s destroyed. Shen and Jade scramble out of the way as it fires blindly at them. All three soldiers are tossed like dolls into the hard ice trench below. 
They all manage to get up as more Acheron troops pass them by heading for the tank. Gaven pushes open a metal hatch against the inner wall of the trench and it opens for him. 
“Come on, we stopped their advance, good enough for now.”
Both women follow Gaven inside a narrow corridor that leads back into the main structure of Sidsini Base.
________________






Chapter 20


B E T W I  -  T W O


The only surviving battle tank to get to the Acheron main line was in front of Jared’s squad. The tank opened fire on the Acheron fort’s walls and within minutes opens a hole large enough for soldiers to penetrate. 
“Command this is Alpha Squad, we have opened the wall at sector two-five-niner.”
Static bursts in his ears as the stoic male voice responds. “Copy Alpha, press on with your attack.”
Jared looked over his shoulder to the dozen or so soldiers under his command. Nobody seemed interested in storming the breach. “We press on, people!”
Again, nobody steps up to be first. Jared turns around with his back to the enemy. “Look, this is why we signed up right? For the chance to serve and die for our planet. Well we’ve all served, now it’s time to die.”
Jared points to a young soldier nearest to him. “Start your advance, Sergeant. I’ll call in more heavy support.”  The woman lowers her combat shield and waves to the troops behind her.
“Second Squad, you heard the man, move out people.”
Six soldiers get to their feet and start heading over the top of the trench towards the gaping hole in the Bug Army’s wall. The gunner on the Battle Tank covers storm begins to weaken but not the high winds. Some of the soldiers are blown off their feet on the ice and snow but get back up and press on. 
Within minutes they are firing on Acheron troops who have come to the wall’s defence on the inside. Color plasma beams criss cross the area in a surreal light show. Jared looks away from it, ducking behind the tank.
Another NCO slides in behind the tank next to Jared. 
“Get third squad up here and give me a live count,” Jared barks at him. The man waves his hand and heads off around the other side of the tank.
Jared switches comm channels to talk to the tank commander.
“Thunder Four this is Alpha Lead, head for the breach.”
“Copy Alpha, ready to roll.”
“Outstanding, wait out.”
Jared moves to the other side of the tank as the NCO returns. “Live count is one fiver, Sergeant.”
“Affirmative. Mount up, you’re going in behind us.”
Third Squad begins climbing up the sides of the battle tank and hanging on to external rails, weapons drawn. Jared walks back to where another squad leader is hunkered down in the snow.
“Binc, I’ll need to use what’s left of the for backup. You’re in charge. If we get pushed back or overrun, you engage. Copy that?”
Sergeant Binc looked at him as if he were insane. 
“That’s suicide!”
“This is war, Sergeant.”
“If you’re overrun, I’m getting my people the hell out of here.”
Jared knew she could see his face through the shield. His eyes were shining like a mad man’s. “They’ll have your ass for cowardness in the face of the enemy.”
She shook her head and then stared at the three circles on his chest plate.
“You're insane, Jared.”
Jared smiled, “Yes, but I’m in charge.”
Binc was aghast as he laughed inside his suit.
“Thunder Four, move out!” ordered as he turned around and grabbed onto a handrail on the back of the tank. The battle tank ambled forward, guns blazing.
* * *
Jared rides the battle tank closer to the wall. Enemy return fire brushes off several soldiers from the tank. But inside the wall the resistance appears to be weakening. The tank bulldozes its way through the wall making an even larger hole for Acheron troops to flood through.
“Thunder Four put some rounds into the inner walls. Redecorate at will.”
“Copy, that,” came the enthusiastic response.
More rounds blew gaping holes into the inner walls of the fort. It was only a matter of time now before the enemy succumbed to their will. Jared watched the rampant destruction with fascination. It was mesmerising. 
“Outstanding, Thunder Four. Keep firing.”
The tank responded but the noise and canon concussions drowned them out.
Time seemed to stand still as the plasma bolts and explosive rounds lit up the area in a chaotic storm of death. Jared became lost in the wonder of the light show as explosions overlayed on top of each other in a beautiful display of power and death.
He was knocked out of his reverie when an enemy round impacted the far side of the battle tank. The shock wave knocked just about all of the Elysian soldiers off save for him. His arm was locked around a hand hold as his body was pulled away and then back against the tank with a thud that nearly knocked him out.
“Thunder Four, Thunder Four, what’s your status, over?”
 A new voice answers, yelling over the noise of battle. “Guidance is out, fires under control. Commander and driver are dead.”
“Keep moving. Get me closer, over?”
“Sarg, we have no guidance.”
“Just move it straight, soldier.”
“Copy.”
The tank lurched forward, crushing the base of the first wall as it rolled over the debris. Jared waves others to join him on the side of the tank as it rumbles past them. Nobody is taking him up on the offer. Finally a weary Sergeant Putao pulls himself up next to Jared.
“Everyone back on the tank, we’re going in.”
Putao shakes his helmeted head. “Sarg, this tank’s going to blow any second.”
Jared pushes his helmet into Putao’s faceplate. 
“This tank won’t blow until I get off, understand?”
Putao can see the rage and insanity in Jared’s eyes. He nods inside his helmet as he turns to help another soldier mount up. Several more troopers do the same and before long there are a dozen Elysian soldiers hanging from the still smoldering armor.
An Acheron anti-tank crew working from inside the fort opens up on the wounded tank. The incendiary round barrels inside the massive beast and explodes it from within. Six soldiers are killed instantly as their bodies are torn apart when tank’s main battery ignites. Everyone hanging onto the outside of the tank are blown off and fall onto the hard ice. Jared finds himself on the ground as the tank came to a stop and fell inwards with a thunderous crash. The ice splintered and cracked around the dead beast.
With their cover literally blown, the rest of Jared’s platoon pushed forward into the meat grinder of the Acheron Army. Dozens of Elysian troops are cut down like Jared used to destroy the milky columns of weeds on the farm. Frozen blood and shattered suits littered the battlefield. Jared watched the slaughter helplessly from his back on the ice. His suit lost power when he fell back to the ice and he fought to regain control of it before the enemy guns turned on him and any other moving survivor.
* * *
Sergeant Binc raised her augmented scanner to her face shield and surveyed the dead. She whispered a prayer for them to herself. What a fucking waste. Movement catches her attention and she refocuses behind the inanimate tank. There are two soldiers huddled there, one waving at her. The scanner ID’s him as Sergeant Jared. “Damn, he’s still alive.”
“Second Platoon, move up and hold your fire,” Jared orders over the comm.
For a moment she considers not answering him. That damn bastard. Her weapon in pointing directly at his huddled form. It would be so damn easy. She lowers the scanner and looks down at her squads huddled in the icy trench. The blowing snow was beginning to cover them. They had to get moving or be buried. She sighed to herself.
“Copy that, Sergeant.”
She signals her troops with a hand wave and they all slowly get up and prepare their weapons for an attack. 
“Second Platoon, form on me. Stay low and sharp. Fire on my signal.”
Powered blue and white suits climb up and over the icen walls of the trench as the platoon slowly advances towards the stricken tank.
* * *
Jared watched the Second Platoon advance towards him. He bites his lower lip to force himself to focus on anything but the fact that he was about to die. The kid sitting beside him was named Trevens. Jared pointed to his side of the tank.
“The enemy should be advancing on that side, see if you can see them coming.”
Trevens edges his helmet around the massive tread of the tank and catches sight of multiple Acheron bugs making their way towards the tank.
“You’re right, Sarg. A swarm of them damn bugs are coming. How’d you know?”
Jared takes a deep breath to calm his nerves. His body shakes for a moment as he calms. “They’re not bugs, kid. They are doing exactly what I would do. Because they’re humans, just like you and me.”
Jared could see the kid’s eyes as big as platters behind his face shield. It made him laugh out loud which added to the illusion that he was insane from the kid’s point of view.
“Just kidding, son. This war’s getting to me.”
Trevens looked somewhat relieved to hear that Jared himself crazy. He managed a weak laugh of his own. But Jared could see him fixating on the peace symbol scratched onto Jared’s breast plate.
“Get ready, we’re going to glass those fuckers.”
Trevens charged his rifle with a glorious smile on his youthful face. It sickened Jared to the point where his shakes started again. 
________________






Chapter 21


B E T W I  -  T H R E E


Sergeant Binc’s platoon reached Thunder Four’s still burning shell and quickly engaged the Acheron troops in what amounted to hand to hand fighting. Plasma guns were shot at point blank but mostly it was steel on steel mele in the oldest form of fighting known. Jared used the lasing bayonet more than anything as he and all of his comrades fought for their lives against the four armed enemy.
In a one on one fight the Acheron suits held the advantage, but the odds were evened when more than two Elysian soldiers attacked one of the bug soldiers. The snow storm started dumping huge, white flakes on the battlefield as soldiers killed soldiers with brutal violence.
The ground was soon wet with red and yellow blood. Jared fights defensively, preferring to assist others than take the lead and often the killing shot. It was not how he used to fight and he began taking more bows than he was delivering. A sure sign he would be killed. His nervous shakes had subsided once the fighting started which was a relief. But he knew that he couldn’t avoid a fight much longer.
Before he could even begin to think about the ramifications he found himself jabbing the business end of his rifle into the bug eyed helmet of a hapless Acheron soldier. When the helmet burst, so did the unfortunate man’s head. The yellow and white mess that had been someone’s head fractured into pieces as the body fell backwards. 
Jared pushed on over the dead Acheron soldier and immediately started exchanging blows with the next unfortunate soul. Time seemed to slow down for him as it often did in the heat of battle. He was able to anticipate the enemy’s moves a second before anyone else and the result was another dead Acheron soldier. His anticipation was not due to any superior skills other than simple experience. The more time you have logged fighting, the better your skills become and the greater your chances are for surviving. 
As the latest victim fell forward Jared glanced aside and saw what seemed like hundreds of Acheron soldiers flooding out holes in the fort walls and into an equal number of Elysian soldiers who had advanced to support him. He had never been in a battle this large before with this many participants. It was terrifying and exhilarating at the same time. His shoulder was rocked by a glancing blow and it snapped his attention back to the killing task at hand.
Jared fired a spray shot and two Acheron Army soldiers exploded, their fractured armor and splattered guts covered everyone around them. Out of the cloud of debris and snow came a new foe standing on the remains of the previous bug soldiers. 
Looked up at the nearly silhouetted figure Jared pulled up his rifle and didn’t take a shot at him.  Across the breastplate of the bug soldier was the familiar three circles of the Elysian peace movement. It was Gaven.
The figure held his fire and then reached out with one of his lower arms to pull Jared up on the pile of dead soldiers. Jared accepted the hand and stood toe to toe with Gaven. He couldn’t see inside the insectoid like eye domes but he knew it was his friend. 
Death and destruction rages on around them as the two brothers in arms embraced. Gaven used his superior strength to pull Jared around and soon they were back to back, each facing the other’s side. Jared was the first to fire on the other Acheron soldiers as Gaven quickly followed. Before either man could make sense of what was happening they both started firing on their own soldiers as much as each other’s side. 
Confusion spread around them as neither side knew how to handle a rogue trooper what was just as capable of killing his own kind as the enemy. Eventually anger from both sides coalesced into action. Both sides fired upon Gaven and Jared who managed to defend themselves with alarming ease.
The war had made each man an expert killer and now the prosecutors of the war would pay for that sin. The two of them opened up a steady stream of death that leveled every soldier on both sides for several meters around them.
* * *  
Gaven stopped shooting at about the same time that Jared did from behind him. Both sides of the conflict had them surrounded and for the moment, stopped fighting each other. He reached over with his lower right arm and activated a device that was strapped to his left forearm. It was the detonator. He could feel Jared turn to face him. Gaven pointed up to tho
* * *
Those were Acheron warships high above them. Jared looked back down at Gaven and tried to peer inside his friend's alien helmet. All he could see was his own ghostly reflection in the polished black glass. Gaven’s arm activated a device and a bright light lit the battlefield from above. The warships had exploded in a blinding display of nuclear obliteration. 
As he stood there staring at his friend in astonishment for what he had done, debris from the exploding ships began raining down on the moon in a surreal light show that nobody had ever witnessed before. Gaven held out his free hand and Jared took it in a tight clasp. It was his way of saying goodbye. Jared shook the hand confidently as they came under fire from the angered soldiers of both sides.
Jared took several shots to his legs and fell to the rubble as he returned fire. Gaven’s torso shielded him for a brief moment but the overwhelming firepower soon tore through Jared’s suit with ease. He watched in wonder as his limbs were lased off and his torso pierced through by white hot radioactive rounds. Death was not as painful as he had thought it would be. He fell back looking up at Gaven as his friend was slowly cut down above him. Jared’s life went dark as if someone had turned out the only light in the cosmos.
* * * 
Gaven’s suit began to crumble around hims as he was drilled with fire from both sides. Pain ripped through him as he lost secondary and then primary arms. He fell backwards over the lifeless body of Jared. Laying there staring glassy eyed into the screens that showed the debris of his starship raining down in red and orange streaks like fluorescent rain.
* * *
Selene sat back in her seat with her eyes closed. The battle for Betwi-Three was underway as they sped back to Eylsia. Morale Dispatches were announced over the ship’s PA recounting the progress of the battle. Initial reports were cautious and offered few facts about who was winning. The other soldiers listened intently for news of the inevitable victory. 
Selene knew their forces would win, but she also knew that Jared was not coming home alive. Call it a gut feeling, woman’s intuition, whatever. She knew her child would never live to see it’s father. It made tears leak from her eyes and trickle down her cheeks. She didn’t cry, but the thought of never seeing Jared again filled her heart with regret and anger. 
He would have never tried to get himself killed, she knew, but at the same time, she understood that the government wouldn’t allow him to survive the battle. She caressed the data fob in her pocket. It was her last piece of Jared and after she turned the data over to the Peacers, she would keep it for the rest of her life.
Cheering startled her and forced her to open her eyes and wipe them dry. The battle was over and the moon was now in the hands of the Elysian Army. Two view screens a few rows ahead of her showed orbital feeds of the battlefield below. The ground was ghostly white from snow and there were burnt craters pockmarking the clean snow. Near the Acheron fort she saw the remains of an exploded Elysian combat tank and hundreds of dead bodies from both armies radiating outward.
The feed was too far away to distinguish anything more than colors and shapes. The soldiers on the transfer ship were told that two enemy starships were destroyed during the battle and the surviving Acheron Army fought hard until the bitter end. Patriotic music played over the PA as some of the soldiers sang a victory song together. 
Selene could only stare at all the dead bodies on the ground. She knew they were all humans. It was no longer just a suspicion by the Peacers, it was a fact and she would be the one to release that fact soon. The names of the fallen began to scroll down over the battlefield images like credits to a holo drama. She read every one of them until she saw Jared’s name. Then her eyes welled up again and she fell back into her chair to cry.










PART THREE
________________
Chapter 22


E L Y S I A,  T W O  Y E A R S  L A T E R




Hector and Trille returned to the war memorial on the anniversary of the final battle for Betwi-Three. They took time out from their busy lives, purchased blue Morning Glory flowers for Jared and placed them in the monument wall as did thousands of others. It was a tradition that dated back before the war and one that had became the symbol for those who had made the ultimate sacrifice. 
The yellow ball of Suth One was shining high in the blue skies above them as she placed the flower into the narrow slot next to Jared’s placard. The flower mirrored the sky with a yellow center and pale blue petals. There was only enough room for his name and the date of his birth and death on the circular chromed placard. Trille carried their first born child in her arm as she touched the warm metal name plate and closed her pale eyes.
Jared represented her first love and even after his death she still held a special place in her heart for him. Hector was less enthusiastic about coming but when she pressed him about it, he relented, citing strong memories of the old Jared he had grown up with. But she knew he no longer missed his old friend or even cared much that he hadn’t come back. Perhaps Hector knew that if Jared had survived the war he would never have married Trille. She would be holding Jared’s child in her arms and not Hectors.
Hector, like many vets who came to the memorial, wore a hat emblazoned with his unit’s number and the Elysian Army logo. He was just a FILO soldier but that didn’t matter to anyone who had survived the war. A veteran was a veteran no matter how they served or how illustrious their service record was. War was the ultimate bonding experience for humans and it was an exclusive club for those who had survived it.
A crowd of people had started to gather around the monument behind Hector and Trille. They were a motley group wearing ragged clothes and sporting long, stringy hair. Some of them wore old and tattered uniform jackets from when they had served in the Elysian Army. They all wore emblems of the Peacer Movement. Three round circles blue, black and red. 
Hector immediately became edgy upon seeing them. He moved in closer to his wife and kid and kept looking over his shoulder as if he expected a confrontation. Trille let go of the name plate and opened her eyes as she stepped back and bumped into Hector. 
She turned and saw the Peacers gathering quietly around the monument. One of them, a woman with gray hair stepped towards them. Hector moved between her and Trille. She stopped, motioning to the wall with her head.
“Do I know you?” Hector asked. He knew the face but couldn’t place from where.
The woman smiled thinly. She had blue and red flowers in her hair and wore a ragged, white shirt with the Peacer logo on it. A small boy held her hand but stood reverently behind her.
“Perhaps. I was a member of Jared’s platoon, First Army.”
Hector looked aghast at her, “You were in the war?”
She nodded. 
“How can you be with them? Doesn’t his death mean anything to you?”
The woman shook her head and then looked up at Jared’s name plate. “It means everything to us,” she said, pulling the boy closer to her side. He was all of two years old and the spitting image of Jared. Knowing blue eyes looked out from under blonde hair. “Thanks to his efforts, the war will finally end.”
“What are you saying? Are you accusing Jared of being a Peacer?”
The woman returned her attention to Hector and her dark eyes narrowed. “Perhaps you’ve seen the interview with the Acheron Army soldier?”
Hector bristled, “Lies and fake accusations. That footage was staged by Peacers.”
“Jared recorded that interview. He hoped it would be enough evidence to stop the war. To stop the killing of fellow humans on Betweos.”
Trille looked at the blonde child and started to cry. She got down to her knees and stared at the boy. “Hector, this is Jared’s child.”
Hector recoiled in disgust but knew instantly that it was true. “You’re Seline, aren’t you. The woman who corrupted Jared.”
Selene nodded. “I didn’t corrupt him. His government corrupted him and you and everyone else on this monument. The war was a terrible lie and soon everyone will know the truth.”
Hector nearly punched her but held back when he heard the Peacers start to chant anti-war songs. 
Trille stood up and took a step closer to Seline. There was anger and regret in her eyes as she spat in Seline’s face. This was the woman who had taken her man from her and turned him into a traitor. Seline didn’t retaliate. She pulled up the bottom of her shirt and wiped her face off with it. Trille turned away, unable to even look at Seline anymore.
Seline took a step to the wall and placed a black metal bracket with three black circles around it over Jared’s name placard.  The Peace Brackets had started to appear all around the monument as relatives of those who were killed woke up to the fact that the war had been a lie. Then she placed a red chrysanthemum with a yellow center beside the blue flower. The red flower was for Gaven and every Acheron soldier who had ever died in the war. 
Hector started to remove the items but Trille Stopped him. She begged him to leave as the Peacers drew closer. Hector snarled at the crowd and broke away from them with his family. 
Selina and her child watched them leave and then looked back up at the war monument. It was not the same monument that had been there the day they had left for war. It was an anti-war monument now. Soldiers from both sides were attacking a bronze version of Jared and Gaven with their backs turned. It had become an iconic image after combat footage of the battle was leaked to the public. Their heroic stand against their own governments was now immortalized for everyone to see. 
The true machinations of how the war had started and how it had been allowed to continue were still unknown, but every day new information came forward and more and more people were prosecuted. The next time the two sides would meet at Betweos it would be under a flag of truce. 




The End